Source: docs/uploads/breast.pdf
Extracted: 2025-08-11T13:07:35.027109Z
---

NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)
Breast Cancer
Version 4.2025 — April 17, 2025
NCCN.org
NCCN recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation when applicable and available.
Trials should be designed to maximize inclusiveness and broad representative enrollment.
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patients
Continue
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
*William J. Gradishar, MD/Chair ‡ † *Helen Chew, MD † Sameer A. Patel, MD Ÿ
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center Fox Chase Cancer Center
Center of Northwestern University Chau Dang, MD † Laura H. Rosenberger, MD, MS ¶
*Meena S. Moran, MD/Vice-Chair § Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Duke Cancer Institute
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital Hope S. Rugo, MD †
*Anthony D. Elias, MD †
UCSF Helen Diller Family
Jame Abraham, MD ‡ † University of Colorado Cancer Center
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/ Sharon H. Giordano, MD, MPH †
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center The University of Texas *Cesar A. Santa-Maria, MD, MSCI †
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute MD Anderson Cancer Center Johns Hopkins Kimmel Cancer Center
Vandana Abramson, MD † Matthew P. Goetz, MD ‡ † Bryan P. Schneider, MD †
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center Indiana University Melvin and Bren Simon
Comprehensive Cancer Center
*Rachel C. Jankowitz, MD †
*Rebecca Aft, MD, PhD ¶
Mary Lou Smith, JD, MBA ¥
Abramson Cancer Center
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-
Research Advocacy Network
at the University of Pennsylvania
Jewish Hospital and Washington
Hatem Soliman, MD †
University School of Medicine Sara H. Javid, MD ¶
Moffitt Cancer Center
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center
Doreen Agnese, MD ¶
Erica M. Stringer-Reasor, MD † ‡
The Ohio State University Comprehensive Jairam Krishnamurthy, MD †
O'Neal Comprehensive
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Cancer Center at UAB
and Solove Research Institute
A. Marilyn Leitch, MD ¶
Melinda L. Telli, MD † Þ
Kimberly H. Allison, MD ≠ UT Southwestern Simmons
Stanford Cancer Institute
Stanford Cancer Institute Comprehensive Cancer Center
Mei Wei, MD †
Bethany Anderson, MD § Janice Lyons, MD §
Huntsman Cancer Institute
University of Wisconsin Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/
at the University of Utah
Carbone Cancer Center University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center
Kari B. Wisinski, MD †
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Janet Bailey, MD § University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center
University of Michigan Susie McCloskey, MD, MSHS §
Amulya Yellala, MBBS ‡
Rogel Cancer Center UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Harold J. Burstein, MD, PhD † Melissa McShane, MD †
Dana-Farber/Brigham and Fox Chase Cancer Center Kay T. Yeung, MD, PhD Þ †
Women’s Cancer Center UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Joanne Mortimer, MD †
Nan Chen, MD ‡ City of Hope National Medical Center Jessica S. Young, MD ¶
The UChicago Medicine Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
Comprehensive Cancer Center
‡ Hematology/Hematology § Radiation oncology/
NCCN Continue oncology Radiotherapy
Rashmi Kumar, PhD Þ Internal medicine Ÿ Reconstructive surgery
† Medical oncology ¶ Surgery/Surgical oncology
Ryan Schonfeld, BA
≠ Pathology * Discussion Section Writing
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosures
¥ Patient advocacy Committee
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
NCCN Breast Cancer Panel Members Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A)
Summary of Guidelines Updates Principles of Dedicated Breast MRI Testing (BINV-B) Find an NCCN Member
Fertility and Birth Control (BINV-C) Institution: https://www.nccn.org/
Recommendations for Lobular Carcinoma In Situ were removed
Considerations for Surgical Axillary Staging (BINV-D) home/member-institutions.
from the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer. See NCCN
Axillary Lymph Node Staging (BINV-E)
Guidelines for Breast Cancer Screening and Diagnosis NCCN Categories of
M argin Status Recommendations After Breast-Conserving
Evidence and Consensus: All
Noninvasive Breast Cancer Surgery (BCS) for Invasive Cancers and DCIS (BINV-F)
recommendations are category
D uctal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS) Workup and Primary Treatment Contraindications to Breast-Conserving Approaches
(DCIS-1) Requiring RT (BINV-G) 2A unless otherwise indicated.
D CIS Postsurgical Treatment and Surveillance/Follow-up (DCIS-2) P rinciples of Breast Reconstruction After
See NCCN Categories of
Surgery (BINV-H)
Invasive Breast Cancer Evidence and Consensus.
Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I)
Clinical Stage, Workup (BINV-1)
S pecial Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males NCCN Categories of
Locoregional Treatment of cT1–3,cN0 or N+,M0 Disease
(Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J) Preference:
• BCS + Whole Breast RT (BINV-2)
Principles of Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy (BINV-K) All recommendations are
• Mastectomy ± PMRT (BINV-3)
Principles of Preoperative Systemic Therapy (BINV-L) considered appropriate.
Systemic Adjuvant Treatment
Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M)
• HR-Positive – HER2-Positive Disease (BINV-5) See NCCN Categories of
G ene Expression Assays for Consideration of Adjuvant
• HR-Positive – HER2-Negative Disease:
Preference.
Postmenopausal Patients (BINV-6) Systemic Therapy (BINV-N)
Premenopausal Patients with pT1–3, pN0 (BINV-7) Definition of Menopause (BINV-O)
Premenopausal Patients with pT1–3, pN+ (BINV-8) S ystemic Therapy for ER- and/or PR-Positive Recurrent
Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Special Considerations
• HR-Negative – HER2-Positive Disease (BINV-9)
Disease (BINV-P) Phyllodes Tumor (PHYLL-1)
• HR-Negative – HER2-Negative Disease (BINV-10)
S ystemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable Paget Disease (PAGET-1)
• Favorable Histologies (BINV-11)
(Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q) Breast Cancer During Pregnancy
Workup Prior to Preoperative Systemic Therapy (BINV-12)
Systemic Chemotherapy for HR-Positive or -Negative and (PREG-1)
A djuvant Systemic Therapy After Preoperative Systemic
HER-2 Negative (BINV-Q 5) Inflammatory Breast Cancer
Therapy (BINV-16)
Targeted Therapies and Associated Biomarker Testing for (IBC-1)
Surveillance/Follow-up (BINV-17)
Recurrent/Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-18) Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV Staging (ST-1)
(M1) Disease (BINV-Q 6)
Treatment of Local and Regional Recurrence (BINV-19) Abbreviations (ABBR-1)
Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease (BINV-R)
S ystemic Treatment of Recurrent Unresectable (Local or
Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-21)
Principles of Survivorship for Those Living with Advanced or
Metastatic Breast Cancer (BINV-28)
The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way. The NCCN
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may
not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2025.
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 4.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 3.2025 include:
BINV-Q 2 of 15 and BINV-A:
• Second line: HER2 IHC 0+ moved to new row and fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki was changed from a category 1, preferred recommendation to a
category 2A, other recommended regimen.
• Footnote verbiage was updated to align with FDA approved scoring and CAP reporting: The distinction between HER2 test results of IHC 0/absent
membrane staining, IHC 0+/with membrane staining (faint, partial membrane staining in ≤10%), IHC 1+ or 2+/ISH negative is currently clinically relevant
for therapy selection.
• Footnote f revised: Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki may be used for HER2 IHC 0+ 1+ or 2+/ISH negative, in those previously treated with at least
one line of endocrine-based therapy in the metastatic setting...
BINV-Q 3 of 15
• Second Line, row 3 revised: No germline BRCA1/2 mutation and HER2 IHC 0+, 1+ , or 2+/ISH negative.
• Second Line, row 3, column 2: Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki changed from a category 1, preferred to a category 2A, other recommended regimen.
• Footnote k revised: Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan may be considered in a later line for HER2 IHC 0+, 1+ or 2+/ISH negative, if not used in second line
or may be considered first line therapy when disease has progressed during or within 6 months after completing adjuvant chemotherapy...
Erratum:
BINV-20
• Last node, added "and Supportive Care".
Updates in Version 3.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 2.2025 include:
Erratum:
BINV-M 3 of 10
• Regimen revised: AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) followed or preceded by carboplatin + taxane (paclitaxel or docetaxel).
BINV-M 6 of 10
• Added dosing for AC followed or preceded by carboplatin + taxane (paclitaxel).
Updates in Version 2.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 1.2025 include:
BINV-Q 2 of 15
• Erratum: "Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk is indicated as second- or subsequent-line therapy for those who have received a prior endocrine-based
therapy and chemotherapy for unresectable or metastatic disease." was added to the beginning of footnote h to clarify that the recommendation aligns
with the FDA indication and panel vote.
• For Breast Cancer Version 1.2025, BINV-M 6 of 10: Dosing correction for AC followed or preceded by carboplatin + docetaxel.
BINV-M 3 of 10
• Regimen clarified: TC followed by or preceded by AC was replaced with AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) followed or preceded by carboplatin +
docetaxel.
BINV-M 4 of 10
• Erratum: Paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab was inadvertently listed under "Adjuvant setting only". This has been corrected and this regimen is
listed under "Preoperative or adjuvant setting".
• Footnotes were adjusted in the table.
BINV-M 6 of 10
• Dosing added for AC followed or preceded by carboplatin + docetaxel.
• Formatting change for Docetaxel + Carboplatin + Pembrolizumab.
• Dosing correction for Docetaxel + Carboplatin + Pembrolizumab.
BINV-M 10 of 10
• Reference 34 added: Sohn J, Kim GM, Jung KH, et al. A randomized, multicenter, open-label, phase III trial comparing anthracyclines followed by
taxane versus anthracyclines followed by taxane plus carboplatin as (neo) adjuvant therapy in patients with early triple-negative breast cancer: Korean
Cancer Study Group BR 15-1 PEARLY trial. J Clin Oncol 2024; 42: LBA502.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 6.2024 include:
DCIS-1
• Footnote g revised: Surgical axillary staging should not be performed for preoperative (biopsy-determined) pure DCIS unless there is some clinical-pathologic
suggestion of invasion or axillary metastasis. A SLNB should also can be considered in the setting of 1) mastectomy for DCIS, where there is a small risk of
detecting invasive disease in the mastectomy specimen or 2) excision in an anatomic location compromising the performance of a future SLNB procedure.
• Footnote h added: A SLNB may be considered in the setting of 1) mastectomy for DCIS, 2) excision in an anatomic location compromising the performance of
a future SLNB procedure 3) oncoplastic breast conserving surgery (see BINV-D for appropriate candidates for SLNB).
• Footnote m, last sentence revised: Select patients with "low" risk DCIS may be considered suitable for APBI/PBI or omission of RT (endocrine therapy alone, if
all RTOG 9804 criteria are met: screen-detected, grade 1–2, size ≤2.5 cm, margins ≥3 mm).
DCIS-2
• Surveillance/Follow-up, 2nd bullet revised: First mammogram 6–12 mo, after end of RT, if given, or after BCS therapy (category 2B) if no RT is given
and annually thereafter
• Footnote q revised: The standard dose of tamoxifen is 20 mg/day for 5 years. Low-dose tamoxifen (5 mg/day or 10 mg/every other day, for 3 years) is
an option in patients who are symptomatic or unwilling to take standard 20-mg dosing. Low-dose tamoxifen (5 mg per day or 10 mg every other day for
3–5 years) is an option if patient is symptomatic on the 20-mg dose or if patient is unwilling or unable to take standard-dose 20 mg per day tamoxifen
[10 mg every other day since 5-mg dose is not available in the United States]. This low dosage needs further investigation in premenopausal individuals
(DeCensi A, et al. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:1629-1637).
BINV-1
• Workup
Last bullet added: Consider baseline lymphedema screening, as per NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship
• Clinical Stage
Bottom pathway, last column middle node, bullet 1 revised: BCS + surgical axillary staging ± whole breast RT Followed by RT
Bottom pathway, last column middle node, bullet 2 revised: Mastectomy + surgical axillary staging ± PMRT Followed by RT
BINV-2
• Column headers added: Surgery, Adjuvant Systemic Therapy, Nodal Status, RT
• Column 2
Last sentence added: RT is typically given after systemic therapy (Also for BINV-3)
• pN1a pathway, bullet 1 revised: cT1–T3 2, cN0
• pN1a pathway, "No" node, last column revised: Whole breast RT with inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at risk ± boost to tumor bed
(category 1). Strongly consider comprehensive RNI, including any portion of the undissected axilla.
• Footnote o revised: Sentinel node biopsy may be omitted based on the SSO Choosing Wisely recommendation in patients ≥70 years of age with HR+/
HER2-negative and pT1, cN0 tumors (Hughes KS, et al. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2382-2387. Kunkler IH, et al. N Engl J Med 2023:388:585-594).
• Footnote p added: Determined by surgery, clinical findings, or radiographic imaging.
• Footnote q added: Based on emerging data from the SOUND trial, patients with HR+/HER2-negative tumors, pT1, N0 (node negative by axillary
ultrasound), may be considered for omission of SLN biopsy. Gentilini OD, et al. JAMA Oncol 2023;9:1557-1564.
BINV-3
• Header revised: Locoregional Treatment of cT–3, cN0 or cN+, M0 Disease: Mastectomy ± PMRT
• Column headers added: Surgery, Adjuvant Systemic Therapy, Pathologic Nodal Status, RT
• Column 1 revised: Nipple-sparing, skin-sparing, or total mastectomy with surgical axillary staging (category 1) ± reconstruction
BINV-4
• Header added: Adjuvant Systemic Therapy Considerations Based on Histology and Receptor Status after Upfront Surgery
Continued
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 6.2024 include:
BINV-5
• pT1c-pT3 pathway revised: Adjuvant chemotherapy with trastuzumab (category 1) (± pertuzumab for pT2-T3) and endocrine therapy
• Footnote hh revised: The prognosis of benefit of HER2-targeted therapy is uncertain in patients with HER2-positive breast cancer with pT1a–b, N0
tumors, pT1a and pT1b tumors that are pN0 is uncertain even when HER2 is amplified or overexpressed. This is a population of patients with breast
cancer that was not studied in available randomized trials. The decision for use of trastuzumab therapy in this cohort of patients must balance with the
known toxicities of trastuzumab, such as cardiac toxicity, and the uncertain, absolute benefits that may exist with trastuzumab therapy.
• Footnote ii revised: Adjuvant chemotherapy with weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab can be considered for pT1,N0,M0, HER2-positive cancers,
particularly if the primary cancer is HR-negative. The absolute benefit of HER2-based systemic chemotherapy is likely negligible in patients with HR-
positive cancers and tumor size bordering on T1mic (<1 mm), when the estimated recurrence risk is less than 5% and endocrine therapy remains a
viable option for systemic treatment. (Also for subsequent pages)
BINV-6
• Middle pathway, column 3, new node added: Determine if candidate for chemotherapy (Also for BINV-7)
New branch point added: Not a candidate for chemotherapy (Also for BINV-7)
• Footnote removed: Addition of 1 year of adjuvant olaparib is an option for select patients with germline BRCA1/2 mutation after completion of adjuvant
chemotherapy. See BINV-L. In patients eligible for adjuvant olaparib and abemaciclib or ribociclib the optimal sequence is not known. (Also for BINV-8
and 10)
BINV-7
• Not a candidate for chemotherapy, last column, new node added: Adjuvant endocrine therapy ± ovarian suppression/ablation. Consider adjuvant
ribociclib for eligible patients. See BINV-K 2 of 3 for eligibility criteria.
BINV-8
• Bottom pathway revised: Adjuvant chemotherapy followed by endocrine therapy ± ovarian suppression/ablation (category 1). Consider adjuvant
abemaciclib or ribociclib and/or adjuvant olaparib if germline BRCA1/2 mutation for eligible patients. See BINV-K 2 of 3 and BINV-M for eligibility criteria.
BINV-9
• pT1c-pT3 pathway revised: Adjuvant chemotherapy with trastuzumab (category 1) (± pertuzumab for pT2-T3)
BINV-10
• Last column, middle pathway revised: Consider adjuvant chemotherapy and adjuvant olaparib if germline BRCA1/2 mutation, see BINV-M for eligibility
criteria.
• Last column, bottom pathway revised: Adjuvant chemotherapy (category 1) and adjuvant olaparib if germline BRCA1/2 mutation, see BINV-M for
eligibility criteria.
BINV-14
• Footnote t added: Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J). (Also for BINV-15 and BINV-16)
BINV-16
• Footnote removed: High-risk criteria include stage II–III TNBC. The use of adjuvant pembrolizumab (category 2A) may be individualized.
BINV-17
• Endocrine therapy
Psychosocial support added: Survivors are at elevated risk for fear of recurrence, distress, anxiety, and depression that may persist for many years
after diagnosis. Periodic screening and referral to mental health professionals if needed are recommended. See NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 6.2024 include:
BINV-18
• Workup, Imaging for systemic staging
Bullet 6, sub-bullet revised: FDG-PET/CT (consider FES-PET/CT for ER-positive disease and lobular histology)
• Footnote iii revised: Tumor tissue or plasma-based circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) assays may be used and each of these have benefits and limitations for diagnosis
and disease progression. Tissue-based assays have greater sensitivity for some alterations, but ctDNA may reflect tumor heterogeneity more accurately. If one
specimen is negative for actionable biomarkers, testing on the alternative specimen can be considered.
• Footnote kkk added: In the setting of oligometastatic breast cancer, the currently available data do not support ablative metastasis-directed RT (ie, stereotactic body
radiation therapy [SBRT]) for extending overall survival (OS) or progression-free survival (PFS). (Also for BINV-21)
BINV-19
• Column 3
1st row revised: Repeat BCS or mastectomy + consider surgical axillary staging if no prior ALND + RT after BCS and if indicated after mastectomy
2nd row revised: Total mastectomy + consider surgical axillary staging if no prior ALND + repeat RT if feasible and indicated
3rd row revised: Surgical resection if feasible + consider surgical axillary staging + postmastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT)
4th row revised: Surgical resection if feasible + consider surgical axillary staging if no prior ALND + repeat RT, if feasible and indicated
• Footnote mmm revised: In patients with a local breast recurrence after BCS who had a prior SLNB, a repeat SLNB may be considered although the accuracy of repeat
SLNB is unproven. After mastectomy, repeat SLNB may be considered although there are limited data in this setting. In patients who had a prior ALND or mastectomy,
repeat SLNB with lymphoscintigraphy may be considered rather than ALND (Poodt IGM, et al. Ann Surg Oncol 2019;26:2417-2427).
BINV-22
• Footnote removed: If progression on initial endocrine therapy, switch to a different endocrine therapy option.
BINV-25
• Top pathway, column 4 revised: Systemic therapy + ± HER2-targeted therapy until progression
• Footnote cccc revised: Continue HER2-targeted therapy following progression on first-line HER2-targeted chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. The optimal
duration of trastuzumab in patients with long-term control of disease is unknown. (Also for BINV-26)
BINV-26
• Column 4 revised: Alternate systemic therapy + HER2-targeted therapy until progression
BINV-27
• Footnote removed: Targeted Therapies and Associated Biomarker Testing for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease BINV-Q (6).
BINV-28
• New section: Principles of Survivorship for Those Living with Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
BINV-A (1 of 2)
• Footnote d revised: The distinction between HER2 IHC 0 with no membrane staining from IHC 0+ with faint, partial membrane staining in ≤10%, 1+, or 2+/ISH negative
results (on primary or metastatic samples) and 1+ is currently clinically relevant in the since patients with metastatic disease setting since with HER2 1+ or 2+/ISH
negative results (on primary or metastatic samples) may be eligible for treatment targeting non-amplified levels of HER2 expression.
BINV-C
• New paragraph added: The general considerations for fertility and sexual health/function outlined for specific populations in NCCN Guidelines for Adolescent and Young
Adult (AYA) Oncology and NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship are applicable to all patients diagnosed with breast cancer. See NCCN Guidelines for Adolescent and
Young Adult (AYA) Oncology and NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship.
BINV-D
• Section significantly revised.
BINV-E
• Paragraph 2 revised: In the absence of definitive data demonstrating superior survival, the performance of axillary staging may be considered optional in patients who
have particularly favorable tumors, patients for whom the selection of adjuvant systemic and/or RT is unlikely to be affected, those ≥70 years of age, or those with
serious comorbid conditions.
• Footnote a revised: Sentinel node biopsy may be omitted based on the SSO Choosing Wisely recommendation in patients ≥70 years of age with HR+/HER2-negative
and pT1, cN0 tumors (Hughes KS, et al. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2382-2387. Kunkler IH, et al. N Engl J Med 2023:388:585-594).
• Footnote b added: Based on emerging data from the SOUND trial, patients with HR+/HER2-negative tumors, pT1, N0 (node negative by axillary ultrasound), may be
considered for omission of SLN biopsy. Gentilini OD, et al. JAMA Oncol 2023;9:1557-1564. Continued
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 6.2024 include:
BINV-F (1 of 2)
• Bullet 1 added: Pathology report should include:
Sub-bullet 3 added: Quantification of the extent of disease that is approximating the inked margin.
BINV-F (2 of 2)
• Row 7, column 1 revised: Pure Classic LCIS at surgical margin
BINV-G
• Title revised: Contraindications to breast-conserving approaches Special Considerations to Breast-Conservation Therapy Requiring RT
BINV-H (2 of 7)
• Footnote g revised: Common donor sites for autologous tissue include the abdomen (ie, DIEP, MS-TRAM, SIEA, free TRAM, pedicled TRAM), gluteal region (ie, SGAP,
IGAP), thigh (ie, TUG, VUG, DUG, PAP), or the back (ie, LD, TDAP, LAP).
BINV-H (3 of 7)
• Footnote n revised: Addition of latissimus or other regional or free flap to prosthetics in the patient who has previously had irradiation mitigates many of the effects
specified in the previous footnote.
BINV-H (5 of 7)
• Bullet 3, first sentence revised: Selection of reconstructive option and timing of reconstruction option is based on an assessment of cancer treatment, body habits of
patients, obesity, smoking history, comorbidities, and patient concerns.
BINV-H (6 of 7)
• Last bullet revised: Breast implant-associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma (BIA-ALCL) and other rare implant-associated malignancies
Sub-bullet 1 added: BIA-ALCL commonly presents with delayed periprosthetic effusion and breast asymmetry occurring >1 year after implantation.
Sub-bullet 2 added: Rarely, BIA-ALCL can present with a mass, regional lymphadenopathy, overlying skin rash, and/or capsular contracture.
Sub-bullet 3 added: Similar symptoms can also be seen in breast implant-associated squamous cell carcinoma (BIA-SCC), another rare implant associated
malignancy. Individuals with breast implants have a very small risk of developing BIA-ALCL (average 7–9 years after implantation) and BIA-SCC (average 22 years
after implantation).
Sub-bullet 4 revised:The majority of cases of BIA-ALCL have been seen in textured implants, while BIA-SCC is associated with either smooth or textured implants.
Rare cases of implant associated diffuse large B-cell lymphomas have also been reported. There exists an association between certain types of textured breast
implants and BIA-ALCL. The risk appears to vary based on the method of texturing. Patients with a past or current history of textured implants should follow up with
their reconstructive surgeon.
BINV-I (1 of 3)
• Optimizing Delivery of Individual Therapy, bullet 3 added: In the setting of oligometastatic breast cancer, the currently available data do not support ablative metastasis-
directed RT (ie, SBRT) for extending overall survival OS or PFS to provide more durable local control and pain relief.
• Whole Breast Radiation, bullet 2, sub-bullet 2 revised: A boost to the tumor bed is recommended in patients at higher risk for recurrence. Typical boost doses are 10–
16 Gy in 4–8 fractions. The boost can be given sequentially after whole breast RT or as a simultaneous integrated boost. Typical boost doses when given sequentially
are 10–16 Gy in 4–8 fractions. When given concurrently, the whole breast should receive 40 Gy in 15 fractions and the lumpectomy site should receive 48 Gy in 15
fractions.
• Footnote a added: Vicini FA, Winter K, Freedman GM, et al. NRG RTOG 1005: A phase III trial of hypo fractionated whole breast irradiation with concurrent boost vs.
conventional whole breast irradiation plus sequential boost following lumpectomy for high risk early-stage breast cancer. Int J Radiation Oncol 2022;114;S1.
• Footnote b added: Coles CE, Haviland JS, Kirby AM, et al. Dose-escalated simultaneous integrated boost radiotherapy in early breast cancer (IMPORT HIGH): a
multicentre, phase 3, non-inferiority, open-label, randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2023;401:2124-2137.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 6.2024 include:
BINV-I (2 of 3)
• PMRT (including breast reconstruction)
Bullet 1 revised: The target includes the ipsilateral chest wall and the entire clinically relevant mastectomy scar ± drain sites.
Bullet 4, sub-bullet 1 revised: The routine use of bolus is not recommended. Bolus should be considered in the use of used for inflammatory breast cancer or and
considered in clinical-pathologic clinically relevant situations with the dose delivered to the skin is not adequate.
Bullet 4, sub-bullet 2 revised: Chest wall RT dose is may be delivered in conventional dosing of 45–50.4 Gy at 1.8–2 Gy/fx in 25–28 fractions or moderately
hypofractionated dosing of 40 –Gy at 2.67 Gy/fx or 42.5 Gy at 2.66 Gy/fx in 15–16 fractions.
Bullet 4, sub-bullet 3 revised: In patients who are at high risk for local recurrence, a chest wall scar boost of approximately 10 16 Gy/fx delivered in at 1.8 to 2.0 Gy/fx
total 5 4–5 fractions may be delivered with or without bolus using electrons or photons.
Regional Nodal Radiation
Bullet 3, sub-bullet 1 revised: Regional node dose RT doses to the regional nodes of 46-50 Gy (conventional fractionation) or 39-42 Gy (moderately fractionated)
dosing schedules similar to PMRT and whole breast may be considered is 45–50.4 Gy at 1.8–2 Gy/fx.
BINV-I (3 of 3)
• Section significantly revised.
BINV-K (1 of 3)
• General Principles
Bullet 2 revised: Considering that majority of all HR+ breast cancers are ER+ or ER+/PR+ and ER-negative/PR+ tumors are relatively uncommon, ER and/or
PR+ tumors are referred to as HR+ throughout the guidelines. The majority of hormone sensitive tumors are ER+/PR+ or ER+/PR-negative. Considering that ER
-negative/PR+ tumors are relatively uncommon, in these guidelines, ER and/or PR+ tumors are referred to as HR+.
• Methods for OFS
Sub-bullet 2 revised: Leuprolide 3.75–7.5 mg IM or SC every 4 weeks or 11.25–22.5 mg IM or SC every 12 weeks
Sub-bullet 3 added: Triptorelin: 3.75 mg IM every 4 weeks.
• Initiation of OFS
Bullet 1 revised: Prior to or with start of chemotherapy (neoadjuvant preoperative or adjuvant)
• Duration of OFS
Bullet 1 revised: 5 years of OFS is optimal based on SOFT and TEXT trials. The 8-year DFS was 85.4% with OFS + tamoxifen versus 80.2% with tamoxifen alone.
A minimum 2 years of OFS is encouraged. There are no data on efficacy or safety to support prolonging of OFS > 5 years. 5 years optimal according to SOFT and
TEXT trial. No efficacy or safety date to support prolonged OFS. It is encouraged to complete a minimum 2 years of OFS. The 8-year DFS was 85.4% with OFS +
tamoxifen versus 80.2% with tamoxifen alone.
BINV-L (1 of 2)
• Known Benefits of Preoperative Systemic Therapy
Bullets moved to Opportunities:
◊ May allow time for genetic testing
◊ May allow time to plan breast reconstruction in patients electing mastectomy
◊ May allow time for delayed decision-making for definitive surgery
BINV-M
• Section significantly revised.
BINV-P (1 of 3)
• New page added: General Considerations
BINV-P (2 of 3)
• Other Recommended Regimens for first and/or subsequent lines of therapy
Bullet 1 revised: For HER2-negative disease and ESR1 mutated tumors and after progression on one or two prior lines of endocrine therapy, including one line
containing a CDK4/6 inhibitor, see BINV-Q (6)
Continued
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 6.2024 include:
BINV-P (3 of 3)
• Row 1, sentence added: If treatment was initiated with chemotherapy and trastuzumab + pertuzumab, and the chemotherapy was stopped, endocrine therapy may be added to
trastuzumab + pertuzumab.
• Abemaciclib in combination with fulvestrant and trastuzumab was added as a category 2B recommendation.
• Footnote m added: See BINV-Q (1) for Considerations for those receiving systemic HER2-targeted therapy.
• Footnote removed: An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for trastuzumab. Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk injection for subcutaneous use may be substituted
for trastuzumab. It has different dosage and administration instructions compared to intravenous trastuzumab. Do not substitute trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-
trastuzumab emtansine or fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki.
BINV-Q (1 of 15)
• General considerations, bullets added:
An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines.
Screen for and manage immunotherapy-related toxicities and endocrine dysfunctions (eg, hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency) in patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors.
See NCCN Guidelines for Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities.
Regular cardiac monitoring for patients with current or prior use of anthracyclines or HER2-targeted therapy. See NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship: Cardiovascular Disease Risk
Assessment.
Consider scalp cooling to reduce incidence of chemotherapy-induced alopecia for patients receiving chemotherapy. Results may be less effective with anthracycline.
BINV-Q (2 of 15)
• First Line
Subtype/Biomarker column revised: No germline BRCA1/2 mutation and/or IHC HER2 0+, 1+, or 2+/ISH negative
Regimen column revised: Systemic chemotherapy (category 1, preferred) BINV-Q (5), or fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki (other recommended regimen)
• Second Line
For HER2 IHC 0, 1+, or 2+/ISH negative: Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk was added as a category 2A other recommended regimen.
Subtype/Biomarker column revised: HER2 IHC 0+, 1+, or 2+/ISH negative (Also for BINV-Q 3)
• Footnote d revised: Principles of HER2 Testing (BINV-A). The distinction between HER2 test results of IHC 0 with no membrane staining, IHC 0+ with faint, partial membrane staining in
≤10%, IHC 1+, or 2+/ISH negative is currently clinically relevant for therapy selection. (Also for BINV-Q 3)
• Footnote e added: Systemic chemotherapy (eg, oral chemotherapy) is generally preferred in the first-line setting. Selection of systemic therapy versus fam-trastuzumab-nxki for first-line
therapy should be individualized based on clinical features and patient preference.
• Footnote f revised: Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki may be considered used for in a later line for HER2 IHC 0+ 1+ or 2+/ISH negative, previously treated with at least one line of
endocrine-based therapy in the metastatic setting. if not used in second–line. Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki is associated with interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis. Regular
monitoring for this serious side effect is recommended. For patients with a history of ILD/pneumonitis, there are no data on managing safety or toxicity of this drug in a trial.
• Footnote h added: Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk did not meet the OS endpoint in the TROPION-Breast01 trial. Whereas the previously approved antibody drug conjugates (ADC), fam-
trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki and sacituzumab govitecan have shown a benefit in OS in randomized phase III trials. The benefit of using datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk in patients with
prior ADC treatment are not known as the TROPION-Breast01 trial did not include patients with prior ADC treatment.
BINV-Q (3 of 15)
• Footnote j revised: Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy may be used in patients who have received at least 1 prior regimen in the metastatic setting. it may be considered for later line if not used
as second line therapy.
• Footnote k added: Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan may be considered in a later line for HER2 IHC 0+, 1+ or 2+/ISH negative, if not used in second line or may be considered first line
therapy when disease has progressed during or within 6 months after completing adjuvant chemotherapy. Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki is associated with interstitial lung disease
(ILD)/pneumonitis. Regular monitoring for this serious side effect is recommended. For patients with a history of ILD/pneumonitis, there are no data on managing safety or toxicity of this
drug in a trial.
BINV-Q (4 of 15)
• Abemaciclib in combination with fulvestrant and trastuzumab (for HR+ only) was added as a category 2B recommendation.
BINV-Q (5 of 15)
• Footnote removed and added to table: Sequential single agents are preferred, but chemotherapy combinations may be used in select patients with high tumor burden, rapidly progressing
disease, and visceral crisis.
• Footnote removed: Alternative taxanes (ie, docetaxel, paclitaxel, albumin-bound paclitaxel) may be substituted for select patients due to medical necessity (ie, hypersensitivity reaction). If
substituted for weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel, then the weekly dose of albumin-bound paclitaxel should not exceed 125 mg/m2.
• Footnote removed: Consider scalp cooling to reduce incidence of chemotherapy-induced alopecia for patients receiving chemotherapy. Results may be less effective with anthracycline
containing regimens.
• Footnote removed: Consider cryotherapy of hands and feet to decrease the risk of peripheral neuropathy when receiving taxane therapies.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2025 of the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer from Version 6.2024 include:
BINV-Q (6 of 15)
• Targeted Therapies and Associated Biomarker Testing for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease
Detection column significantly revised (Also for BINV-Q 7 and 8)
Last row, NCCN Category of Preference column revised: Other recommended regimen subsequent-line therapy
• Footnote t added: Some plasma-based ctDNA assays include a measure of tumor fraction (TF), which can aid in identification of low ctDNA content. Samples with low TF, especially <1%,
should be interpreted with caution. Tests have varying sensitivities at low TF. Additional sampling from current tumor sample or future plasma can be considered. (Also for BINV-Q 7 and
8)
• Footnote x revised: For postmenopausal or premenopausal patients receiving ovarian ablation or suppression or adult males with ER-positive, HER2-negative, ESR1-mutated disease
after progression on one or two prior lines of endocrine therapy, including one line containing a CDK4/6 inhibitor. Assess for ESR1 mutations at progression following prior lines of
endocrine therapy (ctDNA preferred).
BINV-Q (7 of 15)
• Germline PALB2 row moved from subsequent page.
• Footnote y added: This regimen is not FDA approved for this indication. Tung NM, Robson ME, Ventz S, et al. TBCRC 048: phase II study of olaparib for metastatic breast cancer and
mutations in homologous recombination-related genes. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:4274-4282.
• Footnote dd added: Tissue biopsy is more sensitive than ctDNA (liquid biopsy) at detecting homozygous copy loss of PTEN or TMB-H. (Also for BINV-Q 7)
• Footnote removed: NCCN Guidelines for Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities.
BINV-Q (8 of 15)
• Row 1 column 4 revised: Neratinib + ± trastuzumab/ fulvestrant was added as a category 2A, useful in certain circumstances recommendation.
• Row 3 added: Erdafitinib was added as a category 2B, useful in certain circumstances recommendation.
• Footnote hh revised: Jhaveri KL, Goldman JW, Hurvitz SA, et al. Neratinib plus fulvestrant plus trastuzumab (N+F+T) for hormone receptor-positive (HR+), HER2-negative, HER2-mutant
metastatic breast cancer (MBC): Outcomes and biomarker analysis from the SUMMIT trial. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:1028-1028. Jhaveri K, Eli LD, Wildiers H, et al. Neratinib + fulvestrant +
trastuzumab for HR-positive, HER2-negative, HER2-mutant metastatic breast cancer: outcomes and biomarker analysis from the SUMMIT trial. Ann Oncol 2023;34:885-898.
BINV-Q (9 of 15)
• Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk dosing added.
BINV-Q (12 of 15)
• Reference 15 added: Bardia A, Jhaveri K, Im SA, et al. Datopotamab deruxtecan versus chemotherapy in previously treated inoperable/metastatic hormone receptor–positive human
epidermal growth factor receptor 2–negative breast cancer: Primary Results from TROPION-Breast01. J Clin Oncol 2025;43:285-296.
BINV-Q (14 of 15)
• Repotrectinib dosing added.
BINV-Q (15 of 15)
• Reference 14 added: Solomon BJ, Drilon A, Lin JJ, et al. Repotrectinib in patients with NTRK fusion-positive advanced solid tumors, including non-small cell lung cancer: Update from the
phase 1/2 TRIDENT-1 trial [abstract]. Ann Oncol 2023;34:Abstract 1372P.
BINV-R (3 of 3)
• Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease: Suggested Intervals of Follow-up for Patients with Metastatic Disease
Column 3, header revised: Chemotherapy or Targeted Therapy
Column 4, header revised: Endocrine Therapy Alone or in Combination with CDK 4/6 Inhibitor or Other Targeted Therapy
PHYLL-1
• Column 4, Findings revised to "Core Biopsy Results".
IBC-1
• Footnote a revised: IBC is characterized by:
1) Rapid onset (≤6 months) of erythema, edema, p'eau d'orange occupying ≥1/3 of the breast, with or without a palpable mass.
2) Pathologic confirmation of invasive breast cancer.
3) Dermal lymphatic involvement may be seen but is not required for the diagnosis.
IBC is a clinical syndrome in patients with invasive breast cancer that is characterized by erythema and edema (peau d'orange) of a third or more of the skin of the breast. The differential
diagnosis includes cellulitis of the breast or mastitis. Pathologically, a tumor is typically present in the dermal lymphatics of the involved skin, but dermal lymphatic involvement is neither
required, nor sufficient by itself for a diagnosis of IBC.
IBC-2
• Footnote i revised: The accurate assessment of in-breast tumor or regional lymph node response to preoperative systemic therapy is difficult, and should include physical examination
and performance of imaging studies (mammogram and/or breast ultrasound and/or breast MRI) that were abnormal at the time of initial tumor staging. Selection of imaging methods prior
to surgery should be determined by the multidisciplinary team. MRI is more accurate than mammography for assessing tumor response to preoperative therapy.
UPDATES
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS)
Discussion
DIAGNOSIS WORKUP PRIMARY TREATMENT
Whole breast RT (category 1)
with or without boost to tumor
• History and physical exam
bedj,k,l,m
Breast-conserving
• Diagnostic bilateral surgeryf (BCS) without or Postsurgical
DCIS mammogram lymph node surgeryg Accelerated partial breast Treatment (DCIS-2)
Tis,N0,M0, • Pathology reviewb irradiation/partial breast
Encapsulated • Determination of tumor radiation (APBI/PBI)j,k,l
or solid estrogen receptor (ER) or
papillary status No RTj,k,m (category 2B)
carcinoma
a • Genetic counseling
(SPC)
for patients at riskc of Total mastectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy Postsurgical
hereditary breast cancer (SLNB)h ± reconstructioni Treatment (DCIS-2)
• Breast MRId,e as indicated
a Encapsulated papillary carcinoma (EPC) without associated conventional invasion
is staged as pTis because behavior is similar to DCIS (per AJCC). SPC should be
specified as in situ or invasive based on WHO criteria but both forms have favorable h A SLNB may be considered in the setting of 1) mastectomy for DCIS, 2)
outcomes. excision in an anatomic location compromising the performance of a future
b The Panel endorses the College of American Pathologists Protocol for pathology SLNB procedure 3) oncoplastic breast conserving surgery (see BINV-D for
reporting for all invasive and noninvasive carcinomas of the breast. http://www.cap.org. appropriate candidates for SLNB).
c For risk criteria, see NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: i Principles of Breast Reconstruction Following Surgery (BINV-H).
Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate. j Invasive disease at total mastectomy or re-excision should be managed as
d Principles of Dedicated Breast MRI Testing (BINV-B). clinical stage l or stage ll disease (BINV-1).
e The use of MRI has not been shown to increase likelihood of negative margins or k Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I).
decrease conversion to mastectomy. Data to support improved long-term outcomes l Contraindications to Breast-Conserving Approaches Requiring RT
are lacking. (BINV-G).
f Re-resection(s) may be performed in an effort to obtain negative margins in patients m Whole breast RT following BCS reduces ipsilateral breast tumor
desiring breast-conservation therapy. Patients in whom adequate surgical margins recurrence rates in DCIS by 50%–70%. Approximately half of the
cannot be achieved with BCS should undergo a total mastectomy. For definition recurrences are invasive and half are DCIS. The risk of local relapse
of adequate surgical margins, see Margin Status Recommendations After BCS for increases with larger DCIS, palpable mass, grade III disease, margins
Invasive Cancers and DCIS (BINV-F). ≤2 mm, ER-negative tumors, and age <50. Select patients with "low" risk
g Surgical axillary staging should not be performed for preoperative (biopsy-determined) DCIS may be considered suitable for omission of RT (endocrine therapy
pure DCIS unless there is some clinical-pathologic suggestion of invasion or axillary alone, if all RTOG 9804 criteria are met: screen-detected, grade 1–2, size
metastasis. ≤2.5 cm, margins ≥3 mm).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
DCIS-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS)
Discussion
DCIS POSTSURGICAL TREATMENT SURVEILLANCE/FOLLOW-UP
Risk reduction therapy for ipsilateral breast following BCS:
• Consider endocrine therapy for 5 years for patients with ER-
positive DCIS, if:
Treated with BCS and RTn (category 1)
• Interval history and physical exam every 6–12 mo for 5 y,
Treated with excision aloneo
then annually
• Endocrine therapyp:
• First mammogram 6–12 mo, after end of RT, if given, or
Tamoxifenn,q for premenopausal patients
after BCS (category 2B) if no RT is given and annually
Tamoxifenn,q or aromatase inhibitor for postmenopausal
thereafter
patients with some advantage for aromatase inhibitor therapy
in patients <60 years or with concerns for thromboembolism
Risk reduction therapy for contralateral breast:
• Counseling regarding risk reduction
n CYP2D6 genotype testing is not recommended for patients considering tamoxifen.
o Available data suggest endocrine therapy provides risk reduction in the ipsilateral breast treated with breast conservation and in the contralateral breast in patients
with mastectomy or breast conservation with ER-positive primary tumors. Since a survival advantage has not been demonstrated, individual consideration of risks and
benefits is important.
p The use of a bisphosphonate (PO/IV) or denosumab is acceptable to maintain or improve bone mineral density and reduce risk of fractures in postmenopausal (natural
or induced) patients receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy. Optimal duration of either therapy has not been established. Benefits from duration beyond
3 years or optimal duration beyond 3 years is not known. Factors to consider for duration of anti-osteoporosis therapy include bone mineral density, response to
therapy, and risk factors for continued bone loss or fracture. There are case reports of spontaneous fractures after denosumab discontinuation. Patients treated with a
bisphosphonate or denosumab should undergo a dental examination with preventive dentistry prior to the initiation of therapy, and should take supplemental calcium
and vitamin D.
q Low-dose tamoxifen (5 mg per day or 10 mg every other day for 3–5 years) is an option if patient is symptomatic on the 20-mg dose or if patient is unwilling or
unable to take standard-dose 20 mg per day tamoxifen [10 mg every other day since 5-mg dose is not available in the United States]. This low dosage needs further
investigation in premenopausal individuals (DeCensi A, et al. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:1629-1637).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
DCIS-2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DIAGNOSIS WORKUPa CLINICAL STAGE
(CLINICAL)
• History and physical exam
• Imaging:
Diagnostic bilateral mammogram
Ultrasound as necessary See NCCN Guidelines for
Breast MRIb (optional), with special cT0,cN+,M0 Occult Primary
consideration for mammographically occult
tumors
• Pathology reviewc Locoregional treatmenti
• Estrogen/progesterone receptor (ER/PR)
status and HER2 statusd • BCS ± surgical axillary
Localized breast Not staging + whole breast
• Genetic counseling and testing if patient is at
cancer: riske for hereditary breast cancer, has triple- considering RT (BINV-2)
Invasive, negative breast cancer (TNBC) (at any age), or preoperative or
non-inflammatory, is a candidate for adjuvant olaparib systemic • Mastectomy + surgical
non-metastatic (M0) • A as d d a r p e p s r s o p fe r r ia ti t l e it f y and sexual health concerns Criteria for therapy axillary staging ± post-
mastectomy RT (PMRT)
• Pregnancy test in all patients of childbearing preoperative
potentialf (If pregnant, see PREG-1) cT1–T4, systemic (BINV-3)
• Assess for distressg ≥cN0,M0
therapy
• Consider additional imaging studies only
in the presence of signs and symptoms of (BINV-L) Considering Additional Workup
metastatic disease and for patients who are preoperative Prior to Preoperative
clinically high risk (BINV-18)h systemic Systemic Therapy
• Consider baseline lymphedema screening,
therapy (BINV-12)
as per NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship
Inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) Workup for IBC (IBC-1)
Stage IV (M1) or Workup for Recurrent or
Metastatic (M1) invasive breast cancer
Recurrent disease Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-18)
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management
of older adults, see NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult e For risk criteria, see NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate.
Oncology. f For Fertility and Birth Control, see BINV-C. The general considerations for fertility and sexual health/function outlined for specific
b Breast MRI may be useful for characterizing axillary populations in NCCN Guidelines for Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Oncology and NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship are
and/or internal mammary nodal disease. See Principles applicable to all patients diagnosed with breast cancer.
of Dedicated Breast MRI Testing (BINV-B) and NCCN g NCCN Guidelines for Distress Management.
Guidelines for Breast Cancer Screening and Diagnosis. h Routine systemic staging is not indicated for non-metastatic (M0) cancer in the absence of systemic symptoms. If metastatic
c The panel endorses the College of American Pathologists disease is suspected, see Workup on BINV-18.
Protocol for pathology reporting for all invasive and i Patients with a known genetic predisposition to breast cancer may have an increased risk of contralateral or ipsilateral breast
noninvasive carcinomas of the breast. http://www.cap.org. cancers after breast-conservation therapy. Risk reduction strategies including prophylactic mastectomies should be discussed.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). See NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
LOCOREGIONAL TREATMENT OF cT1–3, cN0 or cN+, M0 DISEASEa: BREAST-CONSERVING SURGERY (BCS) + WHOLE BREAST RT
SURGERY ADJUVANT NODAL STATUS RT
SYSTEMIC
Whole breast RT ± boosts to tumor bed, and consider comprehensive regional
THERAPY
nodal irradiation (RNI) in patients with central/medial tumors, pT3 tumors, or
pT2 tumors and one of the following high-risk features: grade 3, extensive
lymphovascular invasion (LVI), or hormone-receptor (HR)-negative.t
or
pN0 or cN0o,p,q Consider APBI/PBI in selected patients who are low risk (category 1)s,u
or
See BINV-4 Consider omitting breast irradiation if adjuvant endocrine therapy is planned and
to determine following criteria are met (category 1):
1) ≥70 y, HR+, HER2-negative, cN0, pT1 (≤2cm)o,t
whether 2) ≥65 y, HR+, HER2-negative, pN0, pT ≤3 cmt
adjuvant
Whole breast RT ± boost (use of
systemic
comprehensive RNI with or without
therapy is
Yes
indicated. Meets ALL of the following intentional inclusion of axilla at the
to all
BCSi,j ± surgical RT is criteria: discretion of the radiation oncologist)
axillary staging typically • cT1–T3, cN0 (category 1)
category 1)k,l,m given after pN1a (1–3 positive • No preoperative
axillary nodes) chemotherapy
± oncoplastic systemic • 1–2 positive sentinel Whole breast RT with inclusion of any
reconstructionn therapy. See
lymph nodes (SLNs) portion of the undissected axilla at risk
BINV-I for • Whole breast RT planned No ± boosts to tumor bed (category 1).
sequencing
Strongly consider comprehensive RNI.
of systemic
therapy and pN2–3r (≥4 positive Whole breast RT ± boosts to tumor bed (category 1) + comprehensive
RT. axillary nodes) RNI, including any portion of the undissected axilla at risk (category 1)
m Contraindications to Breast-Conserving Approaches Requiring RT (BINV-G).
n Includes techniques such as local tissue rearrangement, local flaps, regional flaps, breast
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see NCCN reduction, and mastopexy to allow for greater volumes of resection while optimizing aesthetic
Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology. outcomes in patients undergoing BCS.
i Patients with a known genetic predisposition to breast cancer may have an o Sentinel node biopsy may be omitted based on the SSO Choosing Wisely recommendation in
increased risk of contralateral or ipsilateral breast cancers after breast-conservation patients ≥70 years of age with HR+/HER2-negative and pT1, cN0 tumors (Hughes KS, et al. J
therapy. Risk reduction strategies including prophylactic mastectomies should be Clin Oncol 2013;31:2382-2387. Kunkler IH, et al. N Engl J Med 2023:388:585-594).
discussed. See NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: p Determined by surgery, clinical findings, or radiographic imaging.
Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate. q Based on emerging data from the SOUND trial, patients with HR+/HER2-negative tumors,
j For patients >40 years of age with 2 biopsy proven cTis–cT2 lesions (with at pT1, N0 (node negative by axillary ultrasound), may be considered for omission of SLN biopsy.
least one invasive site) after MRI evaluation, intending on adjuvant whole breast Gentilini OD, et al. JAMA Oncol 2023;9:1557-1564.
radiation + boost, breast-conservation therapy may be considered (Boughey JC, et r Consider imaging for systemic staging, including chest/abdomen ± pelvis diagnostic CT with
al. J Clin Oncol 2023;41:3184-3193). See BINV-G. contrast, bone scan, and optional FDG-PET/CT.
k Considerations for Surgical Axillary Staging (BINV-D). s Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I).
l See Axillary Lymph Node Staging (BINV-E) and Margin Status Recommendations t For definition of HR-positive, see Principles of Endocrine Therapy (BINV-K).
After BCS for Invasive Cancers and DCIS (BINV-F). u APBI/PBI may be administered prior to chemotherapy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
LOCOREGIONAL TREATMENT OF cT1–3, cN0 or cN+, M0 DISEASEa,v: MASTECTOMY ± PMRT
SURGERY ADJUVANT PATHOLOGIC RT
SYSTEMIC NODAL STATUS
THERAPY
Negative axillary nodes
and ≤pT2 (≤5 cm) and No RTy
margins ≥1 mm
See BINV-4
to determine Negative axillary
whether nodes and ≤pT2 Consider postmastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT)s to chest wall. For patients
adjuvant (≤5 cm) and with additional high-risk features,y consider addition of comprehensive RNI
systemic negative margins (including any portion of the undissected axilla at risk).
Nipple-sparing, therapy is but <1 mm
skin-sparing, or indicated.
Negative axillary
total mastectomy RT is Consider PMRTs to chest wall ± comprehensive RNI (including any portion
nodes and pT3
with surgical typically of the undissected axilla at risk).
(>5 cm)
axillary stagingk,l given after
(category 1) ± systemic 1–3 positive Strongly consider PMRTs to chest wall + comprehensive RNI
reconstructionw therapy. See axillary nodesx (including any portion of the undissected axilla at risk).
BINV-I for
sequencing ≥4 positive PMRTs to chest wall + comprehensive RNI (including any portion of the
of systemic axillary nodesr undissected axilla at risk) (category 1).
therapy and
RT.
Re-excision to negative margins is preferred. If not feasible, then strongly
Margins positive consider PMRTs to chest wall ± comprehensive RNI (including any portion of
the undissected axilla at risk).
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see
NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology. v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
k Considerations for Surgical Axillary Staging (BINV-D). w Principles of Breast Reconstruction Following Surgery (BINV-H).
l See Axillary Lymph Node Staging (BINV-E) and Margin Status x In the case of a micrometastasis (>0.2 to ≤2.0 mm), and no axillary dissection, evaluate
Recommendations After BCS for Invasive Cancers and DCIS (BINV-F). other patient risk factors when considering RT.
r Consider imaging for systemic staging, including chest/abdomen ± pelvis y P ostmastectomy RT may be considered for patients with multiple high-risk recurrence
diagnostic CT with contrast, bone scan, and optional FDG-PET/CT. factors, including central/medial tumors or tumors ≥2 cm and at least one of the
s Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I). following: grade 3, ER-negative, or LVI.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPY CONSIDERATIONS BASED ON HISTOLOGY AND RECEPTOR STATUS AFTER UPFRONT SURGERY
HISTOLOGY HR STATUS HER2 STATUS SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT
HER2-positivecc BINV-5
ER-positivecc,dd
pT1–3 AND pN0
and/or Postmenopausalee BINV-6
or pN+
PR-positivecc,dd
• Ductal/NSTz
HER2-negativecc
pT1–3 AND pN0 BINV-7
• Lobular Premenopausalee
• Mixed
pT1–3 AND pN+ BINV-8
• Micropapillary
• Metaplasticaa HER2-positivecc BINV-9
ER-negative
and
PR-negativecc,dd
HER2-negativecc BINV-10
Favorable histologic
typebb:
• Pure tubular
• Pure mucinous
• Pure cribriform ER-positivedd and/or PR-positivedd
• Adenoid cystic
or Favorable Histologies (BINV-11)
(conventional), secretory
ER-negative and PR-negative
carcinoma, and other
salivary carcinomas
• Rare low-grade forms of
metaplastic carcinomaaa
• Other rare forms
cc Correlation of histology, HR, and HER2 status should always be done with
awareness of unusual/discordant or borderline results. See Principles of
z According to WHO, carcinoma of no special type (NST) encompasses Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
multiple patterns including medullary pattern, cancers with neuroendocrine dd Although patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER immunohistochemistry (IHC)
expression, and other rare patterns. staining are considered ER-positive and eligible for endocrine therapies, there are
aa There are rare subtypes of metaplastic carcinoma (low-grade more limited data on the subgroup of cancers with ER-low–positive (1%–10%)
adenosquamous and low-grade fibromatosis-like carcinoma) that are results. The ER-low–positive group is heterogeneous with reported biologic
considered to have a favorable prognosis without adjuvant systemic therapies. behavior often similar to ER-negative cancers; thus, individualized consideration
bb To be associated with favorable prognosis, the favorable histologic type of risks versus benefits of endocrine therapy and additional adjuvant therapies
should not be high grade, should be pure (>90% as classified on the surgical should be incorporated into decision-making. See Principles of Biomarker Testing
excision, not core biopsy alone), and should be HER2 negative. If atypical (BINV-A).
pathologic or clinical features are present, consider treating as ductal/NST. ee Definition of Menopause (BINV-O).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-4
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT: HR-POSITIVE – HER2-POSITIVE DISEASEd,v,dd
Consider adjuvant endocrine therapyff
or
pN0 Consider adjuvant chemotherapya,gg
with trastuzumabhh,ii (category 2B) and
pT1a (≤0.5 cm) endocrine therapyhh,ii
Adjuvant endocrine therapyhh,ii Adjuvant whole
pN1mi breast RT (BINV-2)
pT1, pT2, or pT3; or
and pN0 or pN1mi Adjuvant chemotherapya,ff,gg with or PMRT (BINV-3)
(≤2 mm axillary pT1b (0.6–1.0 cm) trastuzumabhh and endocrine therapyff,jj as indicated.
See BINV-I for
node metastasis)
Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg with sequencing of
• Ductal/NSTz systemic therapy
pT1c–pT3 (>1 cm) trastuzumab (category 1) (± pertuzumab
• Lobular for pT2-T3) and endocrine therapyff,jj and RT.
• Mixed and
• Micropapillary Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg with trastuzumab Follow-up (BINV-17)
pN+ (≥1 ipsilateral + pertuzumabll (category 1, preferred) and
metastases >2 mm) endocrine therapyff,jj,kk
or
Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg with trastuzumab
(category 1) and endocrine therapyff,jj,kk
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see NCCN
Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
z According to WHO, carcinoma of NST encompasses multiple patterns including ii T he absolute benefit of HER2-targeted systemic therapy is negligible in patients
medullary pattern, cancers with neuroendocrine expression, and other rare patterns. with HR-positive cancers and tumor size bordering on T1mic (<1 mm), and
dd Although patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER IHC staining are considered endocrine therapy remains a viable option for systemic treatment.
ER-positive and eligible for endocrine therapies, there are more limited data on the jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant
subgroup of cancers with ER-low–positive (1%–10%) results. The ER-low–positive metastasis for 3–5 years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced) with
group is heterogeneous with reported biologic behavior often similar to ER-negative high-risk node-negative or node-positive tumors.
cancers; thus, individualized consideration of risks versus benefits of endocrine kk C onsider extended adjuvant neratinib following adjuvant trastuzumab-
therapy and additional adjuvant therapies should be incorporated into decision- containing therapy for patients with HR-positive, HER2-positive disease
making. See Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). with a perceived high risk of recurrence. The benefit or toxicities associated
ff Adjuvant Endocrine ± CDK/4/6 Inhibitor Therapy and Principles of Adjuvant with extended neratinib in patients who have received pertuzumab or ado-
Endocrine Therapy (BINV-K). trastuzumab emtansine is unknown.
gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M). ll Updated results from the adjuvant APHINITY trial in HER2-positive early
hh The benefit of HER2-targeted therapy is uncertain in HER2-positive breast cancer breast cancer, with a median follow-up of 8.4 years, have confirmed the
with pT1a–b, N0 tumors, a population not studied in randomized trials. The decision benefit of adding pertuzumab to trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in preventing
for use of trastuzumab therapy in this cohort must balance with the known toxicities. recurrences.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-5
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT: HR-POSITIVE – HER2-NEGATIVE DISEASEd,v,dd
POSTMENOPAUSALee PATIENTS with pT1–3 AND pN0 or pN+ TUMORS
pT1a ( ≤0.5 cm)
and Consider adjuvant endocrine therapy (category 2B)ff
pN0
Not a
candidate for Adjuvant endocrine therapy.ff,jj
chemotherapy Consider adjuvant abemaciclib or
ribociclib for eligible patients.ff
Adjuvant whole
See BINV-K 2 of 3 for eligibility criteria.
breast RT (BINV-2)
pT1b-T3
Not done or PMRT (BINV-3)
(>0.5 cm)
• Ductal/NSTz or
I
c
f
h
c
e
a
m
nd
o
i
t
d
h
a
e
t
r
e
a p
fo
y
r
: Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg followed
a
S
s
e e
in
B
d
I
i
N
ca
V
t
-
e
I
d
fo
.
r
• • • L M M o i i x c b e r u o d l p a a r pillary p a m x N e i 1 l t l a m a s r i t y a ( ≤ n s 2 e o s d m ) e m D c c a h e n e te d m r i m d o a t i h n te e e r f a i o f p r y S c R o t T r n - o P s n C i g d R l e y r a 2 s 1 s - a g y e ne R sc e o c r u e r r ≥ e 2 n 6 c e 1 r b i ) y b . o C e c n o i d c n o l s i c b id r f i e o n r r e a e t d h li j e g u r i v b a a l p n e y t p ff a , a j b j t i ( e e c m n a t t a s e c . g ff ic o l r i y b or s s a e y n q s d t u e R e m T n . i c c i n th g e o r f a py
or (category 1)nn,oo See BINV-K 2 of 3 for eligibility criteria. and
pN1 (1–3
positive Adjuvant endocrine therapy (category Follow-up (BINV-17)
nodes) Recurrence 1).ff,jj Consider adjuvant abemaciclib or
score <26 ribociclib for eligible patients.ff
See BINV-K 2 of 3 for eligibility criteria.
Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg followed by endocrine therapyff,jj (category 1).
pN2/pN3 (≥4 ipsilateral Select patients may be eligible for treatment with adjuvant abemaciclibff or
metastases >2 mm)mm ribociclib and/or adjuvant olaparib if germline BRCA1/2 mutation.
See BINV-K 2 of 3 and BINV-M for eligibility criteria.
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older
adults, see NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology. ee Definition of Menopause (BINV-O).
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). ff Adjuvant Endocrine ± CDK/4/6 Inhibitor Therapy and Principles of Adjuvant Endocrine
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Therapy (BINV-K).
Birth) (BINV-J). gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
z According to WHO, carcinoma of NST encompasses multiple jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant metastasis for 3–5
patterns including medullary pattern, cancers with neuroendocrine years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced) with high-risk node-negative or node-
expression, and other rare patterns. positive tumors.
dd Although patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER IHC staining are mm There are few data regarding the role of gene expression assays in those with ≥4 ipsilateral
considered ER-positive and eligible for endocrine therapies, there are axillary lymph nodes. Decisions to administer adjuvant chemotherapy for this group should be
more limited data on the subgroup of cancers with ER-low–positive based on clinical factors.
(1%–10%) results. The ER-low–positive group is heterogeneous with nn Other prognostic gene expression assays may be considered to help assess risk of
reported biologic behavior often similar to ER-negative cancers; thus recurrence but have not been validated to predict response to chemotherapy. See Gene
individualized consideration of risks versus benefits of endocrine Expression Assays for Consideration of Adjuvant Systemic Therapy (BINV-N).
therapy and additional adjuvant therapies should be incorporated into oo Patients with T1b tumors with low-grade histology and no LVI should be treated with
decision-making. See Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). endocrine monotherapy as the TAILORx trial did not include patients with such tumors.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-6
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT: HR-POSITIVE - HER2-NEGATIVE DISEASEd,v,dd
PREMENOPAUSALee PATIENTS with pT1–3 AND pN0 TUMORS
Consider adjuvant endocrine
pT1a (≤0.5 cm) and pN0 therapy (category 2B)ff
ff,jj
Adjuvant endocrine therapy ±
ff,jj
Not a ovarian suppression/ablation.
candidate for Consider adjuvant ribociclib for
ff
chemotherapy eligible patients. See BINV-K 2 of 3 for
z
• Ductal/NST eligibility criteria.
• Lobular Adjuvant chemotherapygg followed by
• Mixed endocrine therapyff,jj ± ovarian suppression/ Adjuvant whole
• Micropapillary ablation (category 1). Consider adjuvant breast RT (BINV-2)
ribociclib for eligible patients.ff See BINV-K or PMRT (BINV-3)
Not done 2 of 3 for eligibility criteria. as indicated.
See BINV-I for
If candidate for Adjuvant endocrine therapyff,jj ± ovarian sequencing of
chemotherapy: Recurrence suppression/ablation.ff,jj Consider systemic therapy
Strongly score ≤15pp adjuvant ribociclib for eligible patients.ff and RT.
pT1b-T3 (>0.5 cm) Determine if consider 21- See BINV-K 2 of 3 for eligibility criteria. and
and pN0 candidate for gene RT-PCR Follow-up (BINV-17)
chemotherapy
assay
(category 1)nn,oo R sc e o c r u e r r 1 e 6 n – c 2 e 5 pp
Adjuvant chemotherapygg followed
by endocrine therapyff,jj ± ovarian
suppression/ablation.
Recurrence
Consider adjuvant ribociclib for eligible
score ≥26 patients.ff See BINV-K 2 of 3 for
eligibility criteria.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). ff Adjuvant Endocrine ± CDK/4/6 Inhibitor Therapy and Principles of Adjuvant Endocrine
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Therapy (BINV-K).
Birth) (BINV-J). gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
z According to WHO, carcinoma of NST encompasses multiple jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant metastasis for 3–5
patterns including medullary pattern, cancers with neuroendocrine years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced) with high-risk node-negative or
expression, and other rare patterns. node-positive tumors.
dd Although patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER IHC staining are nn Other prognostic gene expression assays may be considered to help assess risk of
considered ER-positive and eligible for endocrine therapies, there are recurrence but have not been validated to predict response to chemotherapy. See Gene
more limited data on the subgroup of cancers with ER-low–positive Expression Assays for Consideration of Adjuvant Systemic Therapy (BINV-N).
(1%–10%) results. The ER-low–positive group is heterogeneous with oo Patients with T1b tumors with low-grade histology and no LVI should be treated with
reported biologic behavior often similar to ER-negative cancers; thus endocrine monotherapy as the TAILORx trial did not include patients with such tumors.
individualized consideration of risks versus benefits of endocrine pp In premenopausal patients with recurrence score <26, the addition of chemotherapy to
therapy and additional adjuvant therapies should be incorporated into endocrine therapy was associated with a lower rate of distant recurrence compared with
decision-making. See Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). endocrine monotherapy, but it is unclear if the benefit was due to the ovarian suppression
ee Definition of Menopause (BINV-O). effects promoted by chemotherapy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT: HR-POSITIVE - HER2-NEGATIVE DISEASEd,v,dd
PREMENOPAUSALee PATIENTS with pT1–3 AND pN+ TUMORS
Adjuvant endocrine therapy ± ovarian
Not a candidate for suppression/ablation.ff,jj Consider
chemotherapy adjuvant abemaciclib or ribociclib for
pN1mi (≤2 mm eligible patients. See BINV-K 2 of 3 for
axillary node eligibility criteria.
Determine if
metastasis) candidate for Adjuvant chemotherapygg followed
or
chemotherapy by endocrine therapy ± ovarian
pN1 (1–3 suppression/ablation.ff,jj
positive nodes) If candidate for Consider adjuvant abemaciclib or Adjuvant whole
chemotherapy: ribociclib for eligible patients. See breast RT (BINV-2)
consider gene BINV-K 2 of 3 for eligibility criteria. or PMRT (BINV-3)
expression or as indicated.
z assay to assess See BINV-I for
• Ductal/NST
• Lobular prognosispp,rr Adjuvant endocrine therapy + ovarian sequencing of
• Mixed suppression/ablation.ff,jj Consider systemic therapy and
• Micropapillary adjuvant abemaciclib or ribociclib for RT.
eligible patients. See BINV-K 2 of 3 for and
eligibility criteria. Follow-up (BINV-17)
Adjuvant chemotherapygg followed by
endocrine therapy ± ovarian suppression/
p
m
N
e
2
ta
/p
s
N
ta
3
s
(
e
≥
s
4
>
i
2
p s
m
il
m
at
)
e
q
r
q
al
ablationff,jj (category 1). Consider adjuvant
abemaciclib or ribociclib and/or adjuvant
olaparib if germline BRCA1/2 mutation for
eligible patients. See BINV-K 2 of 3 and
BINV-M for eligibility criteria.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
z According to WHO, carcinoma of NST encompasses multiple patterns including
medullary pattern, cancers with neuroendocrine expression, and other rare patterns. jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant
dd Although patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER IHC staining are considered metastasis for 3–5 years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced)
ER-positive and eligible for endocrine therapies, there are more limited data on the with high-risk node-negative or node-positive tumors.
subgroup of cancers with ER-low–positive (1%–10%) results. The ER-low–positive pp In premenopausal patients with RS <26, the addition of chemotherapy to
group is heterogeneous with reported biologic behavior often similar to ER-negative endocrine therapy was associated with a lower rate of distant recurrence
cancers; thus individualized consideration of risks versus benefits of endocrine compared with endocrine monotherapy, but it is unclear if the benefit was
therapy and additional adjuvant therapies should be incorporated into decision- due to the ovarian suppression effects promoted by chemotherapy.
making. See Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). qq There are few data regarding the role of gene expression assays in those
ee Definition of Menopause (BINV-O). with ≥4 ipsilateral axillary lymph nodes. Decisions to administer adjuvant
ff Adjuvant Endocrine ± CDK/4/6 Inhibitor Therapy and Principles of Adjuvant chemotherapy for this group should be based on clinical factors.
Endocrine Therapy (BINV-K). rr Gene Expression Assays for Consideration of Adjuvant Systemic Therapy
gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M). (BINV-N).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-8
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT: HR-NEGATIVE – HER2-POSITIVE DISEASEd,v
Consider adjuvant chemotherapya,gg
pN0 with trastuzumabhh (category 2B)
pT1a (≤0.5 cm)
Consider adjuvant chemotherapya,gg
pN1mi with trastuzumabhh,jj Adjuvant whole
breast RT (BINV-2)
pT1, pT2, or pT3; and
pT1b (0.6–1.0 cm) Consider adjuvant chemotherapya,gg or PMRT (BINV-3)
pN0 or pN1mi (≤2 mm
with trastuzumabhh,jj as indicated.
axillary node metastasis)
See BINV-I for
sequencing of
Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg
• Ductal/NSTz pT1c-T3 (>1 cm) with trastuzumabjj (category 1) (± systemic therapy
and RT.
• Lobular pertuzumab for pT2-T3)
and
• Mixed
Follow-up (BINV-17)
• Micropapillary Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg with
trastuzumabjj + pertuzumabll
(category 1, preferred)
pN+ (≥1 ipsilateral metastases >2 mm)
or
Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg with
trastuzumabjj (category 1)
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
z According to WHO, carcinoma of NST encompasses multiple patterns including medullary pattern, cancers with neuroendocrine expression, and other rare patterns.
gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
hh T he benefit of HER2-targeted therapy is uncertain in HER2-positive breast cancer with pT1a-b, N0 tumors, a population not studied in randomized trials. The decision for
use of trastuzumab therapy in this cohort must balance with the known toxicities.
jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant metastasis for 3–5 years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced) with high-risk node-
negative or node-positive tumors.
ll Updated results from the adjuvant APHINITY trial in HER2-positive early breast cancer, with a median follow-up of 8.4 years, have confirmed the benefit of adding
pertuzumab to trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in preventing recurrences.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-9
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT: HR-NEGATIVE – HER2-NEGATIVE DISEASEd,v
pN0 No adjuvant therapyss
pT1a (≤0.5 cm) Adjuvant whole
Consider adjuvant chemotherapya,gg,jj
breast RT (BINV-2)
pN1mi and adjuvant olaparib if germline BRCA1/2
pT1, pT2, or pT3; or PMRT (BINV-3)
mutation, see BINV-M for eligibility criteria.
and pN0 or pN1mi pT1b (0.6–1.0 cm) Olaparib should be given after completion as indicated.
(≤2 mm axillary See BINV-I for
of RT, see BINV-I.
• Ductal/NSTz node metastasis) sequencing of
systemic therapy
• Lobular Adjuvant chemotherapya,gg,jj (category
pT1c-pT3 (>1 cm) and RT.
• Mixed 1) and adjuvant olaparib if germline
and
• Micropapillary BRCA1/2 mutation, see BINV-M for
• Metaplasticaa pN+ (≥1 ipsilateral eligibility criteria. Olaparib should be Follow-up (BINV-17)
metastases >2 mm) given after completion of RT, see BINV-I.
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
z According to WHO, carcinoma of NST encompasses multiple patterns including medullary pattern, cancers with neuroendocrine expression, and other rare patterns.
aa There are rare subtypes of metaplastic carcinoma (eg, low-grade adenosquamous and low-grade fibromatosis-like carcinoma) that are considered to have a favorable
prognosis without adjuvant systemic therapies.
gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant metastasis for 3–5 years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced) with high-risk node-
negative or node-positive tumors.
ss In select patients with high-risk features (eg, young patients with high-grade histology), adjuvant chemotherapy may be considered (category 2B). See BINV-L.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC ADJUVANT TREATMENT: FAVORABLE HISTOLOGIESv,bb
Consider adjuvant endocrine
<1 cm therapyff for risk reduction
pT1, pT2, or pT3;
and pN0 or pN1mi Consider adjuvant endocrine
1–2.9 cm
(≤2 mm axillary therapyff
node metastasis)
ER-positive
• Pure tubular ≥3 cm Adjuvant endocrine therapyff,jj Adjuvant whole
and/or
• Pure mucinous breast RT (BINV-2)
PR-positive,
• Pure cribriform HER2-negativecc or PMRT (BINV-3)
as indicated.
pN+ (≥1 ipsilateral Adjuvant endocrine therapyff,jj
See BINV-I for
metastases >2 mm) ± adjuvant chemotherapya,gg
sequencing of
systemic therapy
• Adenoid cystic
and RT.
(conventional),
and
secretory
Follow-up (BINV-17)
carcinoma, and ER-negative
Limited available data support local therapy
other salivary and
only with consideration for systemic/targeted
carcinomas PR-negative,
therapies only in pN+ disease
• Rare low- HER2-negativecc
grade forms
of metaplastic
carcinomaaa
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see NCCN
Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology.
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) cc Correlation of histology, HR, and HER2 status should always be done with
(BINV-J). awareness of unusual/discordant or borderline results. See Principles of
aa There are rare subtypes of metaplastic carcinoma (eg, low-grade Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
adenosquamous and low-grade fibromatosis-like carcinoma) that are considered ff Adjuvant Endocrine ± CDK/4/6 Inhibitor Therapy and Principles of Adjuvant
to have a favorable prognosis without adjuvant systemic therapies. Endocrine Therapy (BINV-K).
bb To be associated with favorable prognosis, the favorable histologic type should gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
not be high grade, should be pure (>90% as classified on the surgical excision, jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant metastasis
not core biopsy alone), and should be HER2 negative. If atypical pathologic or for 3–5 years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced) with high-risk node-
clinical features are present, consider treating as ductal/NST. negative or node-positive tumors.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-11
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
WORKUP PRIOR TO PREOPERATIVE SYSTEMIC THERAPY
CLINICAL STAGE ADDITIONAL WORKUPa
For operable breast
• Axillary assessment with exam cancers: see Breast and
Consider ultrasound Axillary Evaluation Prior
c≥T2tt or cN+ and M0 Percutaneous biopsy of suspicious nodesuu to Preoperative Systemic
or • Complete blood count (CBC) Therapy (BINV-13)
cT1c, cN0 HER2-positive • Comprehensive metabolic panel, including liver function tests and
disease alkaline phosphatase
or Additional tests to consider as clinically indicated
cT1c, cN0 TNBC • Chest diagnostic CT ± contrast
(For preoperative • Abdomen ± pelvis diagnostic CT with contrast or MRI with contrast
systemic therapy criteria, • Bone scan or sodium fluoride PET/CT (category 2B)
For inoperable
see BINV-L 1) • FDG-PET/CTvv
breast cancers: see
• Breast MRIb (optional), with special consideration for
Preoperative Systemic
mammographically occult tumors, if not previously done
Therapy (BINV-15)
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology.
b Breast MRI may be useful for characterizing axillary and/or internal mammary nodal disease. See Principles of Dedicated Breast MRI Testing (BINV-B) and NCCN
Guidelines for Breast Cancer Screening and Diagnosis.
tt If considering preoperative therapy, consider use of a gene expression assay during workup for postmenopausal patients with cN0, operable ER-positive, HER2-
negative disease (Iwata H, et al. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2019;173:123-133; Pease AM, et al. Ann Surg Oncol 2019;26:366-371).
uu At the time of biopsy of the most suspicious axillary lymph node(s), a marker should be placed to allow for identification and removal at the time of definitive surgery.
vv FDG-PET/CT is most beneficial and accurate for advanced disease (stage III) and invasive ductal (compared to lobular) histology, but may be useful in selected
circumstances of earlier stage disease (stage IIA disease: cT1cN1, cT2cN0) such as: equivocal CT+ bone scan results; suspicion of undetected nodal and/or
distant disease; and treatment response assessment. An FDG-PET/CT may be utilized as an adjunct to, or in lieu of, initial standard staging and may be performed
simultaneously with diagnostic CT. Conversely, a bone scan or sodium fluoride PET/CT may not be needed if an upfront FDG-PET/CT clearly indicates consistent
findings on both PET and CT components.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-12
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
OPERABLE DISEASE: BREAST AND AXILLARY EVALUATION PRIOR TO PREOPERATIVE SYSTEMIC THERAPY
Prior to preoperative systemic therapy, perform:
• Core biopsy of breast with placement of image-
detectable clips or marker(s), if not previously
performed, should be performed prior to
preoperative therapy to demarcate the tumor bed
• Axillary imaging with ultrasound or MRI (if not Preoperative systemic Surgical Treatment and Adjuvant
previously done) therapy based on HR and Therapy After Preoperative Systemic
and HER2 statusgg (BINV-L 1) Therapy (BINV-14)
• Biopsy + marker placement recommended of the
most suspicious and/or clinically positive axillary
lymph node, if not previously done; only the most
suspicious node should be marked and retrieved
along with SLNs
gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-13
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
OPERABLE DISEASE:
SURGICAL TREATMENT AND ADJUVANT THERAPY AFTER PREOPERATIVE SYSTEMIC TREATMENTww
SURGICAL TREATMENT ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPY AND RTt
Adjuvant systemic therapyxx (BINV-16) + whole breast RTs
• cN+ and ypN0: Adjuvant whole breast RT ± boost to the tumor bedyy; and
BCS with
strongly consider comprehensive RNI with inclusion of any portion of the
surgical axillary
undissected axilla at risk.zz
staging (BINV-D)
• Any ypN+: Adjuvant whole breast RT ± boost to the tumor bedyy; and
± oncoplastic
comprehensive RNI with inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at
reconstructionn
risk.
• Any cN0, ypN0: Adjuvant whole breast RT ± boost to tumor bedyy
BCS possible
Adjuvant systemic therapyxx (BINV-16) + PMRTs
• cN+ and ypN0: Strongly consider PMRT to the chest wall and comprehensive
RNI with inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at risk.zz
• Any ypN+: PMRT is indicated to the chest wall + comprehensive RNI with
inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at risk.
• cT4, any N: RT is indicated to the chest wall + comprehensive RNI with
inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at risk.
Mastectomy and surgical
• cT3, cN0, and ypN0: Consider PMRT to the chest wall + comprehensive RNI
axillary staging (BINV-D)
with inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at risk.
± reconstructionw
BCS not possible Adjuvant systemic therapyxx (BINV-16), no PMRT
• Any cN0,ypN0: If axilla was assessed by SLNB or axillary node dissection
n Includes techniques such as local tissue rearrangement, local flaps, regional flaps, breast reduction, and mastopexy to allow for greater volumes of resection while
optimizing aesthetic outcomes in patients undergoing BCS.
s Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I).
t Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
w Principles of Breast Reconstruction Following Surgery (BINV-H).
ww The accurate assessment of in-breast tumor or regional lymph node response to preoperative systemic therapy is difficult, and should include physical examination
and performance of imaging studies (mammogram and/or breast ultrasound and/or breast MRI) that were abnormal at the time of initial tumor staging. Selection of
imaging methods prior to surgery should be determined by the multidisciplinary team. MRI is more accurate than mammography for assessing tumor response to
preoperative therapy.
xx Complete planned systemic therapy regimen course if not completed preoperatively.
yy Strongly consider RT boost for high-risk features (eg, high-grade disease, age <50 years).
zz Based on emerging data, there may be subsets of patients who achieve pCR in nodes that may not benefit from RNI (in BCS setting) or PMRT + RNI (in mastectomy
setting). (Mamounas E, Bandos H, White J, et al. Loco-regional irradiation in patients with biopsy-proven axillary node Involvement at presentation who become
pathologically node-negative after neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Primary outcomes of NRG Oncology/NSABP B-51/RTOG 1304; Abstract GS02-07; SABCS 2023.)
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-14
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
INOPERABLE OR LOCALLY ADVANCED DISEASE (NON-INFLAMMATORY):
PREOPERATIVE SYSTEMIC THERAPY AND SUBSEQUENT TREATMENT
RESPONSEww LOCOREGIONAL TREATMENT AND ADJUVANT THERAPY
Mastectomy and surgical
axillary stagingk Adjuvant systemic therapyxx (BINV-16)
Response to
+ reconstruction (optional)w and
preoperative
or Adjuvant RTs to the whole breast or chest
systemic therapyww
BCS with surgical axillary wall and comprehensive RNI with inclusion of
and tumor is operable
stagingk,aaa ± oncoplastic any portion of the undissected axilla at risk.
Preoperative reconstructionn
systemic
therapyt,gg
Response to
(BINV-L 1) preoperative Follow pathway
systemic therapyww above
and tumor is operable
No response to
Consider additional systemic
preoperative systemic
therapy and/or preoperative
therapyww and/or tumor
radiations
remains inoperable No response to
preoperative systemic Individualize
therapyww and tumor treatment
is inoperable
k Considerations for Surgical Axillary Staging (BINV-D).
n Includes techniques such as local tissue rearrangement, local flaps, regional
flaps, breast reduction, and mastopexy to allow for greater volumes of resection
while optimizing aesthetic outcomes in patients undergoing BCS.
s Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I).
t Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth)
(BINV-J).
w Principles of Breast Reconstruction Following Surgery (BINV-H). xx C omplete planned systemic therapy regimen course, if not completed
gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M). preoperatively.
ww The accurate assessment of in-breast tumor or regional lymph node response aaa For patients with skin and/or chest wall involvement (T4 non-inflammatory)
to preoperative systemic therapy is difficult, and should include physical prior to preoperative systemic therapy, breast conservation may be performed
examination and performance of imaging studies (mammogram and/or breast in carefully selected patients based on a multidisciplinary assessment of local
ultrasound and/or breast MRI) that were abnormal at the time of initial tumor recurrence risk. In addition to standard contraindications to breast conservation
staging. Selection of imaging methods prior to surgery should be determined (BINV-G), exclusion criteria for breast conservation include: inflammatory (T4d)
by the multidisciplinary team. MRI is more accurate than mammography for disease before preoperative systemic therapy and incomplete resolution of skin
assessing tumor response to preoperative therapy. involvement after preoperative systemic therapy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPY AFTER PREOPERATIVE SYSTEMIC THERAPYjj
RESPONSE/PATHOLOGIC STAGE t,ff,gg,jj
ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPY
AFTER PREOPERATIVE THERAPY
ypT0N0 or pCR Adjuvant endocrine therapy (category 1)
HR-positive/
HER2-negative
ypT1–4,N0 Adjuvant endocrine therapy (category 1)
or + adjuvant olaparib if germline BRCA1/2 mutation (category 1), see BINV-M 1 of 10 for eligibility
ypN≥1 criteria. Consider adjuvant abemaciclib or ribociclib for eligible patients, see BINV-K 2 of 3 for
eligibility criteria.
ypT0N0 or pCR Complete up to 1 year of HER2-targeted therapy with trastuzumab (category 1) ± pertuzumab. If
node positive at initial staging, trastuzumab + pertuzumab (category 1).
HR-negative/ bbb
Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (category 1) alone for 14 cycles.
HER2-positive
If ado-trastuzumab emtansine discontinued for toxicity, then complete (up to) 1 year of HER2-directed
ypT1–4,N0
therapy with trastuzumab (category 1) ± pertuzumab. If node positive at initial staging, trastuzumab +
or ll
pertuzumab (category 1)
ypN≥1 and Follow-Up
If HR-positive, adjuvant endocrine therapy kk (category 1) (BINV-17)
HR-positive/
HER2-positive
Endocrine therapy (category 1) + complete (up to) 1 year of HER2-directed therapy with trastuzumab
ypT0N0 or pCR
(category 1) ± pertuzumab. If node positive at initial staging, trastuzumab + pertuzumab (category 1)
For high risk: Adjuvant pembrolizumab (if pembrolizumab-containing regimen was given
ypT0N0 or pCR
preoperatively), see BINV-M 3 of 10.
HR-negative/ ccc
Adjuvant pembrolizumab (if pembrolizumab-containing regimen was given preoperatively)
HER2-negative
ypT1–4,N0 and/or
bbb,ccc
or Adjuvant capecitabine (6–8 cycles)
ypN≥1 and/or
ccc
Adjuvant olaparib for 1 year if germline BRCA1/2 mutation (category 1)
t Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
ff Adjuvant Endocrine ± CDK/4/6 Inhibitor Therapy and Principles of Adjuvant
Endocrine Therapy (BINV-K). ll Updated results from the adjuvant APHINITY trial in HER2-positive early
gg Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M). breast cancer, with a median follow-up of 8.4 years, have confirmed the
jj Consider adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk reduction of distant metastasis benefit of adding pertuzumab to trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in preventing
for 3–5 years in postmenopausal patients (natural or induced) with high-risk node- recurrences.
negative or node-positive tumors. bbb Recommendations do not apply to residual DCIS (ypTis).
kk Consider extended adjuvant neratinib following adjuvant trastuzumab-containing ccc There are no data on sequencing or combining adjuvant pembrolizumab
therapy for patients with HR-positive, HER2-positive disease with a perceived high with capecitabine or olaparib in patients who meet criteria for treatment with
risk of recurrence. The benefit or toxicities associated with extended neratinib in one or more of these agents. However, their sequential/combined use may be
patients who have received pertuzumab or ado-trastuzumab emtansine is unknown. considered given high risk of recurrence in patients with residual disease.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-16
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SURVEILLANCE/FOLLOW-UP
Exam: Endocrine therapy:
• History and physical exam 1–4 times per year as clinically • Assess and encourage adherence to adjuvant endocrine therapy
appropriate for 5 years, then annually • Patients on tamoxifen:
Genetic screening: Age-appropriate gynecologic screening
• Periodic screening for changes in family history and genetic Routine annual pelvis ultrasound is not recommended
testing indications and referral to genetic counseling as • Patients on an aromatase inhibitor or who experience ovarian
indicated, see NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High- failure secondary to treatment should have monitoring of bone
Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate health with a bone mineral density determination at baseline and
Postsurgical management: periodically thereaftereee
• Educate, monitor, and refer for lymphedema management, Lifestyle:
see NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship: Lymphedema • Evidence suggests that active lifestyle, healthy diet, limited
Breast imaging: alcohol intake, and achieving and maintaining an ideal body
• Mammography every 12 months, beginning 6 months or weight (20–25 body mass index [BMI]) may lead to optimal breast
more after completion of breast-conserving therapy (BCT)ddd cancer outcomes. See NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer Risk
• Routine imaging of reconstructed breast is not indicated Reduction.
• For patients with germline mutations or family history of Psychosocial support: Recurrent
breast cancer, please refer to NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/ • Survivors are at elevated risk for fear of recurrence, distress, Disease
Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, anxiety, and depression that may persist for many years after (BINV-18)
and Prostate diagnosis. Periodic screening and referral to mental health
Fertility, birth control, and sexual health see BINV-C. professionals if needed are recommended. See NCCN Guidelines
Screening for metastases: for Survivorship.
• In the absence of clinical signs and symptoms suggestive Communication:
of recurrent disease, there is no indication for laboratory or • Coordination of care between the primary care physician (PCP)
imaging studies for metastases screening. and specialists is encouraged. Additionally, a personalized
Post-treatment monitoring: survivorship treatment plan including personalized treatment
• Cardiotoxicity monitoring for patients who received left- summary of possible long-term toxicity and clear follow-up
sided radiation therapy, anthracyclines, or HER2-targeted recommendations is recommended. See NCCN Guidelines for
therapy. For anthracycline-induced toxicity, see NCCN Survivorship
Guidelines for Survivorship Engagement:
• Provide guidance on risk of comorbidities • Patients frequently require follow-up encouragement in order
to improve adherence to ongoing screening and medication
adherence. See NCCN Guidelines for Patients
ddd Studies indicate that annual mammograms are the appropriate frequency for surveillance of patients with breast cancer who have had BCS and RT with no clear
advantage to shorter interval imaging. Patients should wait 6 to 12 months after the completion of RT to begin their annual mammogram surveillance. Suspicious
findings on physical examination or surveillance imaging might warrant a shorter interval between mammograms.
eee The use of estrogen, progesterone, or selective ER modulators to treat osteoporosis or osteopenia in patients with breast cancer is discouraged. The use of a
bisphosphonate (oral/IV) or denosumab is acceptable to maintain or to improve bone mineral density and reduce risk of fractures in postmenopausal (natural or
induced) patients receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy. Optimal duration of either therapy has not been established. Benefits of duration beyond 3 years
or optimal duration beyond 3 years is not known. Factors to consider for duration of anti-osteoporosis therapy include bone mineral density, response to therapy,
and risk factors for continued bone loss or fracture. There are case reports of spontaneous fractures after denosumab discontinuation. Patients treated with a
bisphosphonate or denosumab should undergo a dental examination with preventive dentistry prior to the initiation of therapy, and should take supplemental calcium
and vitamin D.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-17
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
RECURRENT/STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
CLINICAL WORKUPa
STAGE • History and physical exam
• Discuss goals of therapy, adopt shared decision-making, and document course of care
• CBC Treatment
• Comprehensive metabolic panel, including liver function tests and alkaline phosphatase of Local and
• Imaging for systemic staging: Regional Recurrence
Chest diagnostic CT ± contrast (BINV-19)
Abdomen ± pelvis diagnostic CT with contrast or MRI with contrast and
Brain MRI with contrast if suspicious CNS symptomsfff Supportive carejjj
Spine MRI with contrast if back pain or symptoms of cord compression
Stage IV (M1)
Bone scan or sodium fluoride PET/CT (category 2B)
or
Useful in certain circumstances:
Recurrent
◊ FDG-PET/CT (consider FES-PET/CT for ER-positive disease and lobular histology)
X-rays of symptomatic bones and long and weight-bearing bones abnormal on bone scan Systemic Treatment of
• Biomarker testing: Recurrent Unresectable
Biopsy of at least first recurrence of disease (consider re-biopsy if progression) (local or regional) or
Evaluation of ER/PR and HER2 statusd,ggg,hhh Stage IV (M1) (BINV-21)
Comprehensive germline and somatic profiling to identify candidates for targeted and
therapies,iii see BINV-Q 6 Supportive carejjj,kkk
• Genetic counseling if patient is at riske for hereditary breast cancer
• Assess for distressg
hhh In clinical situations where a biopsy cannot safely be obtained but the clinical
evidence is strongly supportive of recurrence, treatment may commence
based on the ER/PR/HER2 status of the primary tumor. Since ER/PR and
HER2 status can change with treatment and metastatic progression, it may be
a For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of older adults, see NCCN appropriate to consider repeat testing on new samples in these scenarios if
Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology. management will change.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). iii Tumor tissue or plasma-based circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) assays may be
e For risk criteria, see NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk used and each of these have benefits and limitations for diagnosis and disease
Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate. progression. Tissue-based assays have greater sensitivity for some alterations,
g See NCCN Guidelines for Distress Management. but ctDNA may reflect tumor heterogeneity more accurately. If one specimen is
fff F or the treatment of brain metastases, see NCCN Guidelines for Central negative for actionable biomarkers, testing on the alternative specimen can be
Nervous System Cancers. considered.
ggg False-negative ER and/or PR determinations occur, and there may be jjj See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care and NCCN Guidelines for Supportive
discordance between the ER and/or PR determination between the primary Care.
and metastatic tumor(s). Therefore, endocrine therapy with its low attendant kkk In the setting of oligometastatic breast cancer, the currently available data
toxicity may be considered in patients with non-visceral or asymptomatic do not support ablative metastasis-directed RT (ie, stereotactic body radiation
visceral tumors, especially in patients with clinical characteristics predicting for therapy [SBRT]) for extending overall survival (OS) or progression-free survival
an HR-positive tumor (eg, long disease-free interval, limited sites of recurrence, (PFS). In some cases, SBRT may be preferred over palliative RT to provide more
indolent disease, older age). durable local control and pain relief.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-18
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
TREATMENT OF LOCAL RECURRENCE: In-breast or Chest wall recurrencelll (Without clinically overt axillary recurrence)
(For REGIONAL ± LOCAL RECURRENCE, see BINV-20)
INITIAL (PRIOR SURGERY) PRIOR RT LOCAL-REGIONAL (CURRENT) TREATMENT
Repeat BCS or mastectomy + consider surgical
No axillary stagingmmm + RTs after BCS and if indicated
after mastectomy (BINV-3)
BCS Total mastectomynnn + consider surgical axillary Consider appropriate
Yes stagingnnn + repeat RT if feasible and indicateds,ooo systemic therapyqqq
(BINV-K, BINV-M,
BINV-P, BINV-Q) and
Surgical resection if feasibleppp + consider surgical Supportive Carejjj
No axillary stagingmmm + PMRTs (BINV-3) and see Principles of
Survivorship BINV-28
Mastectomy
Surgical resection if feasibleppp + consider surgical
Yes axillary stagingmmm + repeat RT, if feasible and
indicateds,ooo
s Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I).
jjj See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care and NCCN Guidelines for Supportive Care.
lll Multidisciplinary approach is especially important in the management of breast cancer recurrence to consider all potential treatment options for optimal outcomes.
mmm I n patients with a local breast recurrence after BCS who had a prior SLNB, a repeat SLNB may be considered although the accuracy of repeat SLNB is unproven.
After mastectomy, repeat SLNB may be considered although there are limited data in this setting. In patients who had a prior axillary lymph node dissection (ALND)
or mastectomy, repeat SLNB with lymphoscintigraphy may be considered rather than ALND (Poodt IGM, et al. Ann Surg Oncol 2019;26:2417-2427).
nnn Repeat BCS ± adjuvant APBI/PBI may be considered in selected patients who decline mastectomy and otherwise meet consensus criteria for radiotherapy omission
or APBI/PBI. There are limited data for a repeat BCS in this setting.
ooo The decision to use RT to treat locoregional recurrence must factor in any prior radiation to the area and the risk of late normal tissue toxicity from the sum of the
prior and planned radiation courses.
ppp Consider systemic therapy to best response, then resect if possible.
qqq See the Discussion for additional information.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-19
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
TREATMENT OF REGIONAL ± LOCAL RECURRENCElll
(For LOCAL ONLY RECURRENCE, see BINV-19)
RECURRENCE INITIAL (PRIOR) LOCAL-REGIONAL (CURRENT) TREATMENT
TYPE TREATMENT
Surgical resection if feasibleppp with
SLNB only
ALND (for axillary recurrence) + RT if
feasibles,ooo
Axillary
Consider appropriate systemic
Surgical resection of gross diseaseppp therapyqqq
ALND ± ALND (for axillary recurrence) if
(BINV-K, BINV-M, BINV-P, BINV-Q)
feasible + RT if feasibles,ooo and Supportive Carejjj
and see Principles of Survivorship
BINV-28
No prior RT RT (comprehensive or localized)
Supra/infra-clavicular,
Internal mammary
Prior RT Repeat RT, if feasibles,ooo
s Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I).
jjj See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care and NCCN Guidelines for Supportive Care.
lll Multidisciplinary approach is especially important in the management of breast cancer recurrence to consider all potential treatment options for optimal outcomes.
ooo The decision to use RT to treat locoregional recurrence must factor in any prior radiation to the area and the risk of late normal tissue toxicity from the sum of the
prior and planned radiation courses.
ppp Consider systemic therapy to best response, then resect if possible.
qqq See the Discussion for additional information.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-20
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC TREATMENT OF RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASEv
ER- and/or PR-positive; HER2-negatived,dd,ttt BINV-22
Add denosumab
Bone disease present zoledronic acid, or
pamidronatesss
ER- and/or PR-positive; HER2-positived,dd,ttt BINV-24
Recurrent
unresectable
(local or
regional) or
stage IV (M1)
diseasekkk,rrr
ER- and PR-negative; HER2-positived,dd BINV-26
Bone disease not present
ER- and PR-negative; HER2-negatived,dd BINV-27
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
v Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
dd Although patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER IHC staining are considered ER-positive and eligible for endocrine therapies, there are more limited data on the
subgroup of cancers with ER-low–positive (1%–10%) results. The ER-low–positive group is heterogeneous with reported biologic behavior often similar to ER-negative
cancers; thus, individualized consideration of risks versus benefits of endocrine therapy and additional adjuvant therapies should be incorporated into decision-making.
See Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
kkk In the setting of oligometastatic breast cancer, the currently available data do not support ablative metastasis-directed RT (ie, SBRT) for extending overall survival
OS or PFS. In some cases, SBRT may be preferred over palliative RT to provide more durable local control and pain relief.
rrr Routine surgical resection of the primary breast tumor is generally not indicated in the management of patients presenting with de novo stage IV (M1) disease.
Although there is no survival benefit, it may be considered for local control of the primary tumor. Discussion regarding management of the primary tumor in this setting
must be individualized.
sss Denosumab, zoledronic acid, or pamidronate (all with calcium and vitamin D supplementation) should be given (category 1) in addition to systemic therapy or
endocrine therapy if bone metastasis is present, expected survival is ≥3 months, and renal function is adequate. Patients should undergo a dental examination with
preventive dentistry prior to initiation of this therapy. The optimal schedule for zoledronic acid is every 12 weeks.
ttt Baseline assessment of bone density recommended for patients receiving an aromatase inhibitor who are at risk of osteoporosis (eg, age >65, family history, chronic
steroids).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-21
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC TREATMENT OF RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE:
ER- AND/OR PR-POSITIVE; HER2-NEGATIVEd
Visceral crisisuuu Consider initial systemic therapyvvv
Premenopausalee Ovarian ablation or suppression +
systemic therapywww
No visceral crisis
and
Prior endocrine
therapy within 1 y Continue systemic therapy
Postmenopausalee Systemic therapywww until progressionyyy
or unacceptable toxicityzzz Progression
and (BINV-23)
See BINV-28 for Principles
Ovarian ablation or suppression + of Survivorship
systemic therapywww
Premenopausalee
or
No visceral crisis Selective ER modulatorswww
and
No prior
endocrine
therapy within 1 y
Postmenopausalee Systemic therapywww
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
ee Definition of Menopause (BINV-O).
uuu According to the 5th ESO-ESMO international consensus guidelines (Cardoso F, et al. Ann Oncol 2020;31:1623-1649) for advanced breast cancer visceral crisis
is defined as: “severe organ dysfunction, as assessed by signs and symptoms, laboratory studies and rapid progression of disease. Visceral crisis is not the mere
presence of visceral metastases but implies important organ compromise leading to a clinical indication for the most rapidly efficacious therapy.”
vvv Systemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q).
www Systemic Therapy for ER- and/or PR-Positive Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-P).
yyy Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease (BINV-R).
zzz It is acceptable to switch to endocrine-based therapy (BINV-P) after disease stabilizes or response is observed.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-22
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC TREATMENT OF RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE:
ER- AND/OR PR-POSITIVE; HER2-NEGATIVEd (SEE BINV-28 FOR PRINCIPLES OF SURVIVORSHIP)
If not endocrine therapy
refractory, consider: No clinical benefit after up to 3 sequential
Alternate endocrine endocrine therapy regimensyyy Systemic therapyvvv,yyy
therapyggg,www ± targeted or
Progressionyyy therapy Symptomatic visceral disease
or unacceptable (see second-line therapy
toxicity on first-line options on BINV-P)
endocrine therapy
or
Most patients will be candidates for
multiple lines of systemic therapy to
Consider no further
palliate advanced breast cancer. At
Systemic therapyvvv each reassessment clinicians should cytotoxic therapyaaaa
and
assess value of ongoing treatment,
Continue supportive care
For those with the risks and benefits of an additional
(See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative
visceral crisis: line of systemic therapy, patient
Progressionyyy Alternate systemic performance status, and patient Care and NCCN Guidelines for
or unacceptable therapyvvv preferences through a shared decision- Supportive Care)
toxicity on first-line making process.
systemic therapy
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
ggg False-negative ER and/or PR determinations occur, and there may be discordance between the ER and/or PR determination between the primary and metastatic
tumor(s). Therefore, endocrine therapy with its low attendant toxicity may be considered in patients with non-visceral or asymptomatic visceral tumors, especially in
patients with clinical characteristics predicting for a HR-positive tumor (eg, long disease-free interval, limited sites of recurrence, indolent disease, older age).
vvv Systemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q).
www Systemic Therapy for ER- and/or PR-Positive Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-P).
yyy Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease (BINV-R).
aaaa The potential side effects of additional lines of therapy may outweigh any clinical benefit in a patient who has a compromised performance status. Patient
preference must be taken into account.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-23
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC TREATMENT OF RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE:
ER- and/or PR-POSITIVE; HER2-POSITIVEd (SEE BINV-28 FOR PRINCIPLES OF SURVIVORSHIP)
Continue therapy until
Systemic therapy + HER2-targeted therapyvvv,www
progressionyyy
or
or unacceptable toxicity Progression
Endocrine therapybbbb ± HER2-targeted therapy
and (BINV-25)
(if premenopausal,ee consider ovarian ablation or
See BINV-28 for Principles
suppression)www,cccc
of Survivorship
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
ee Definition of Menopause (BINV-O).
vvv Systemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q).
www Systemic Therapy for ER- and/or PR-Positive Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-P).
yyy Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease (BINV-R).
bbbb If prior endocrine therapy within 1 y, consider a different endocrine therapy.
cccc F or premenopausal patients, tamoxifen alone (without ovarian ablation/suppression) + HER2-targeted therapy is also an option.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-24
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC TREATMENT OF RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE:
ER- and/or PR-POSITIVE; HER2-POSITIVEd (SEE BINV-28 FOR PRINCIPLES OF SURVIVORSHIP)
Most patients will
No clinical
be candidates for
benefit after up
Progressionyyy Consider alternate to 3 sequential multiple lines of
endocrine therapy, Systemic therapy systemic therapy to
on first-line endocrine therapy
if not endocrine ± HER2-targeted palliate advanced Consider no further
endocrine regimens ± HER2-
therapy ± HER2- refractoryggg,www targeted therapyyyy therapy until breast cancer. At HER2-targeted
± HER2-targeted progressionvvv,yyy,dddd each reassessment therapyaaaa and
targeted therapy or
therapyvvv
clinicians should continue supportive
Symptomatic
assess value of care
visceral disease
ongoing treatment, See NCCN Guidelines
the risks and benefits for Palliative Care
Progressionyyy of an additional line and
Alternate of systemic therapy, NCCN Guidelines for
on systemic
systemic therapy Continue HER2-targeted therapy patient performance Supportive Care
therapy
+ HER2-targeted until progressionyyy,dddd status, and patient
+ HER2-targeted
therapyvvv
preferences through
therapy
a shared decision-
making process.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
ggg False-negative ER and/or PR determinations occur, and there may be discordance between the ER and/or PR determination between the primary and metastatic
tumor(s). Therefore, endocrine therapy with its low attendant toxicity may be considered in patients with non-visceral or asymptomatic visceral tumors, especially in
patients with clinical characteristics predicting for a HR-positive tumor (eg, long disease-free interval, limited sites of recurrence, indolent disease, older age).
vvv Systemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q).
www Systemic Therapy for ER- and/or PR-Positive Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-P).
yyy Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease (BINV-R).
aaaa The potential side effects of additional lines of therapy may outweigh any clinical benefit in a patient who has a compromised performance status. Patient
preference must be taken into account.
dddd The optimal duration of trastuzumab in patients with long-term control of disease is unknown.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-25
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC TREATMENT OF RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE:
ER- and/or PR-NEGATIVE; HER2-POSITIVEd (SEE BINV-28 FOR PRINCIPLES OF SURVIVORSHIP)
Consider no further
Most patients will be candidates for
Continue therapy HER2-targeted
multiple lines of systemic therapy to
until progressionyyy therapyaaaa and
palliate advanced breast cancer. At each
or unacceptable Alternate systemic continue supportive
Systemic therapy reassessment clinicians should assess
toxicitydddd therapy + HER2- care
+ HER2-targeted value of ongoing treatment, the risks
and targeted therapy until NCCN Guidelines for
therapyvvv and benefits of an additional line of
See BINV-28 for progressionvvv,yyy,dddd Palliative Care
systemic therapy, patient performance
Principles of and
status, and patient preferences through
Survivorship NCCN Guidelines for
a shared decision-making process.
Supportive Care
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
vvv Systemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q).
yyy Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease (BINV-R).
aaaa The potential side effects of additional lines of therapy may outweigh any clinical benefit in a patient who has a compromised performance status. Patient
preference must be taken into account.
dddd The optimal duration of trastuzumab in patients with long-term control of disease is unknown.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-26
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC TREATMENT OF RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE:
ER- AND/OR PR-NEGATIVE; HER2-NEGATIVEd (SEE BINV-28 FOR PRINCIPLES OF SURVIVORSHIP)
Most patients will be
candidates for multiple
lines of systemic therapy
Continue to palliate advanced
Consider no further cytotoxic
therapy until breast cancer. At each
therapyaaaa and continue
progressionyyy reassessment clinicians
supportive care
or unacceptable should assess value
Alternative systemic NCCN Guidelines for
Systemic therapyvvv toxicity of ongoing treatment,
therapyvvv Palliative Care
and the risks and benefits
and
See BINV-28 for of an additional line of
NCCN Guidelines for
Principles of systemic therapy, patient
Supportive Care
Survivorship performance status,
and patient preferences
through a shared
decision-making process.
d Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
vvv Systemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q).
yyy Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease (BINV-R).
aaaa The potential side effects of additional lines of therapy may outweigh any clinical benefit in a patient who has a compromised performance status. Patient
preference must be taken into account.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-27
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF SURVIVORSHIP FOR THOSE LIVING WITH ADVANCED OR METASTATIC BREAST CANCER
General Principles Cardiac monitoring for patients treated with anthracyclines or HER2-
• The management of patients with unresectable, Stage IV (M1) or metastatic targeted therapy, see NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship.
disease requires a multifaceted approach, encompassing treatment and a Nausea/vomiting, anorexia, cachexia, diarrhea, dyspnea, malignant
comprehensive survivorship plan. wounds, sleep-wake disturbances, see NCCN Guidelines for
• For principles of monitoring metastatic disease, see BINV-R. Antiemesis and other NCCN Guidelines under Supportive Care.
• Encourage patients to promptly report any new or worsening symptoms. A
comprehensive evaluation is essential, as these symptoms could indicate Lifestyle, Wellness, and Psychosocial support:
disease progression, treatment effects, or other unrelated medical issues. • Patients should be encouraged to maintain a physically active lifestyle
• Additional health monitoring, management, and immunizations should be and a healthy diet whenever possible, see NCCN Guidelines for
performed as appropriate to the prognosis under the care of a PCP. Survivorship.
• Patients are encouraged to maintain a therapeutic relationship with a PCP • Consider age- and gender-appropriate cancer and preventive health
throughout their lifetime. screenings. These decisions should be individualized according to the
patients prognosis.
Treatment Management and Supportive Care • Screen for anxiety, fear of progression, depression, and post-traumatic
• Regular follow-up discussions about goals of care and care coordination may stress disorder (PTSD) related to cancer and its treatment, see
be necessary to improve both survival and quality of life. Engaging patients in NCCN Guidelines for Distress Management and NCCN Guidelines for
these discussions, including therapy cessation, ensures that care aligns with Survivorship.
their values and preferences. • Social determinants of health (SDOH) monitoring and referrals
• Surveillance and follow-up plans should be individualized for all patients, Provide resources and assistance through financial navigators,
particularly older patients, considering comorbidities, functional status, and social workers, or other specified personnel to address financial
life expectancy. Personalization of care is key to managing the complexities of concerns, employment issues, and family support. Ensuring access
older adults or those with multiple medical co-morbidities. to these services can alleviate significant stress for patients.
• Patients should receive multidisciplinary and interprofessional care that seeks ◊ See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care: Social Support/Resource
to prevent and/or manage morbidities associated with breast cancer or its Management.
treatment. ◊ Financial Advocacy Services Guidelines (Association of Cancer
• Patients often experience multiple transitions between different care settings Care Centers).
and healthcare providers. Coordination between primary care providers and ◊ Financial Toxicity and Cancer Treatment (National Cancer
specialists is essential to ensure continuity of care. Institute).
• Address all treatment options at each progression, including the option of See NCCN Guidelines for Distress Management.
supportive care alone or hospice care, is appropriate in patients with stage IV • Facilitate connections with consumer groups, support networks,
disease and organizations that advocate for accessible and equitable care.
• Early involvement of a palliative care team should be considered to Engagement with these groups can empower patients and provide
provide advance care planning, goals of care discussions, care transitions, additional support.
psychosocial support, and management of cancer and therapy-related • For any patients with sexual health concerns or for fertility and birth
symptoms. control in premenopausal patients, see BINV-C.
• Routine screening, evaluation, and assessment for supportive care
interventions and referrals are necessary. Some of the symptoms are Communication
Hormone-related symptoms, see NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship. • Consistent and clear communication while acknowledging
Cognitive dysfunction, see NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship. uncertainties of disease trajectory and prognosis is crucial.
Peripheral neuropathy • Treatment goals, survivorship issues, and the specific roles of each
Cancer-related pain, see NCCN Guidelines for Adult Cancer Pain. provider should be communicated to the patient.
Cancer-related fatigue, see NCCN Guidelines for Cancer-Related Fatigue.
Cancer-related infections, NCCN Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Engagement
Cancer-Related Infections. • See NCCN Resources for Patients and Caregivers and Guidelines for
Chemotherapy-induced anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia, see Patients.
NCCN Guidelines for Hematopoietic Growth Factors. • Address long-term survivorship issues specific to younger patients,
Immunotherapy-related toxicities, see NCCN Guidelines for Management of such as psychosocial development and educational or vocational
Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities. support. These patients may face unique challenges that require
targeted interventions.
• Living will/end-of-life planning should be discussed.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-28
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BIOMARKER TESTING
HER2 TESTINGa,b
• HER2 testing should be performed on all new primary or newly metastatic breast cancers using methodology outlined in the ASCO/CAP HER2 testing
guideline.a
• A re-review of the pathology with consideration for repeat or consultative HER2 testing should be made if a Grade 1 (any histologic type), pure mucinous, pure
a
tubular, or pure cribriform carcinoma tests HER2-positive.
• After a negative HER2 test result on initial biopsy sample, consider retesting on subsequent surgical or other additional sample if the initial sample was
suboptimal (eg, minimal invasive cancer was present, cold ischemic time or fixation was suboptimal), testing error is expected, additional samples contain
higher grade morphologically distinct cancer from the biopsy, to rule out heterogeneity in a high grade cancer, or if it will otherwise aid in clinical decision-
a
making.
IHC 0,1+ d HER2 (-)
HER2 testing by validated Must reflex test with ISH (if same specimen),
immunohistochemistry IHC 2+ Equivocal result or order new test with IHC or dual probe ISH (if
(IHC) assayb,c new specimen available).
IHC 3+ HER2 (+)
HER2-Negative:
• (Group 5) HER2/CEP17 ratio <2.0 AND average HER2 copy number <4.0 signals/cell
HER2-Negativef (Determined by concurrent IHC and ISH results):
• (Group 2) HER2/CEP17 ratio ≥2.0 AND average HER2 copy number <4.0 signals/cell and concurrent IHC 0-1+ or 2+
• (Group 3) HER2/CEP17 ratio <2.0 AND average HER2 copy number ≥6.0 signals/cell and concurrent IHC 0-1+
• (Group 4) HER2/CEP17 ratio <2.0 AND average HER2 copy number ≥4.0 and <6.0 signals/cell and concurrent IHC 0-1+ or 2+
HER2 testing by validated
dual-probee ISH assayb,c HER2-Positivef (Determined by concurrent IHC and ISH results):
• (Group 2) HER2/CEP17 ratio ≥2.0 AND average HER2 copy number <4.0 signals/cell and concurrent IHC 3+
• (Group 3) HER2/CEP17 ratio <2.0 AND average HER2 copy number ≥6.0 signals/cell and concurrent IHC 2+ or 3+
• (Group 4) HER2/CEP17 ratio <2.0 AND average HER2 copy number ≥4.0 and <6.0 signals/cell and concurrent IHC 3+
HER2-Positive:
• (Group 1) HER2/CEP17 ratio ≥2.0 AND average HER2 copy number ≥ 4.0 signals/cell
d The distinction between HER2 IHC 0/absent membrane staining, IHC 0+/with
a NCCN endorses the ASCO/CAP HER2 testing guideline. “Principles of HER2 Testing” membrane staining (faint, partial membrane staining in ≤10%), IHC 1+, or 2+/
modified with permission from Wolff AC, Hammond MEH, Allison KH, et al. Human ISH negative results (on primary or metastatic samples) is currently clinically
Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 Testing in Breast Cancer: American Society relevant since patients with metastatic disease may be eligible for treatment
of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists Clinical Practice Guideline targeting non-amplified levels of HER2 expression.
Focused Update. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:2105-2122. e Single-probe ISH assays are not preferentially recommended but if used, cases
b Laboratory must participate in a quality assurance accreditation program for HER2 with average HER2 copy number ≥4.0 and <6.0 signals/cell should base final
testing. Otherwise, tissue specimen should be sent to an accredited laboratory for results on concurrent IHC and if 2+ reflexed to dual probe ISH testing.
testing. Health care systems and providers must cooperate to ensure the highest f For ISH Groups 2–4 final ISH results are based on review of concurrent IHC,
quality testing. with recounting of the ISH test by a second reviewer if IHC is 2+ (per 2018
c Evidence from trastuzumab adjuvant trials show that HER2 testing by ISH or IHC CAP/ASCO Update recommendations). Additional report comments are
have similar utility to predict clinical benefit from HER2-targeted therapy. recommended for negative final results in these ISH groups.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-A
1 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BIOMARKER TESTING
HR TESTING
• HR testing (ER and PR) by IHC should be performed on any new primary • Laboratories should have standard operating procedures to maximize
or newly metastatic breast cancer using methodology outlined in the accuracy and reproducibility of results for cases with <10% ER staining
latest ASCO/CAP HR testing guideline.g DCIS should be tested for ER or weak intensity staining (to avoid false negatives). The status of
(PR not required). controls should be reported for cases with these results.
• ER testing should be used to determine if a patient is a candidate for • PR testing by IHC on invasive cancers can aid in the prognostic
endocrine therapies. classification of cancers and serve as a control for possible false-
Cancers with 1%–100% of cells positive for ER expression are negative ER results. Patients with ER-negative, PR-positive cancers may
considered ER-positive. Patients with these results are considered be considered for endocrine therapies, but the data on this group are
eligible for endocrine therapies (applies to DCIS and invasive cancers). noted to be limited. The same overall interpretation principles apply but
Invasive cancers with between 1%–10% ER positivity are considered PR should be interpreted as either positive (if 1%–100% of cells have
nuclear staining) or negative (if <1% or 0% of cells have nuclear staining).
ER-low–positive. There are more limited data on the benefit of
endocrine therapies in this group, but they suggest possible benefit • Interpretation of any ER result by pathology should include evaluation
from endocrine treatment, so patients are considered eligible for this of the concordance with the histologic findings of each case. Clinicians
treatment (as above). However, this group is noted to be heterogeneous should be aware of when results are unusual and work with pathologists
and the biologic behavior of ER-low–positive cancers may be more to attempt to resolve (eg, repeat testing, consultative review) or explain
similar to ER-negative cancers. This should be considered in decision- atypical reported findings. See table below.
making for other adjuvant therapy and overall treatment pathway.
Cancers with <1% staining are considered ER-negative. Patients
with cancers with these results have not been shown to benefit from
endocrine therapies.
Summary of ER IHC Scoring/Interpretation Correlation of ER and Histology: Highly Unusual Results
Results Interpretation/ Highly Unusual ER-Negative Results Highly Unusual ER-Positive Results
(following ER testing by Report As:
Low-grade invasive carcinomas of no Metaplastic carcinomas of all subtypes
validated IHC assay) special type (also known as invasive
ductal carcinoma)
0% to <1% of nuclei stain ER-negative
Lobular carcinomas (classic type) Adenoid cystic carcinomas and other
ER-low–positive salivary gland-like carcinomas of the breast
1%–10% of nuclei
1%–100% of stain (with recommended Pure tubular, cribriform, or mucinous Secretory carcinoma
nuclei stain comment)
carcinomas
>10% of nuclei stain ER-positive
Encapsulated papillary and solid Carcinomas with apocrine differentiation
papillary carcinomas (apocrine carcinoma)
g Allison KH, Hammond MEH, Dowsett M, et al. Estrogen and Progesterone Receptor Testing in Breast Cancer: ASCO/CAP Guideline Update. J Clin Oncol
2020;38:1346-1366; Arch Pathol Lab Med 2020;144:545-563.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-A
2 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF DEDICATED BREAST MRI TESTING
See NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer Screening and Diagnosis for indications for screening MRI in patients at increased breast cancer risk.
Personnel, Facility, and Equipment Clinical Indications and Applications
• Breast MRI examinations are performed with IV contrast and should • May be used for staging evaluation to define extent of cancer or
be performed and interpreted by an expert breast imaging team presence of multifocal or multicentric cancer in the ipsilateral
working in concert with the multidisciplinary treatment team. breast, or as screening of the contralateral breast cancer at time
• Breast MRI examinations require a dedicated breast coil and breast of initial diagnosis (category 2B). There are no high-level data to
imaging radiologists familiar with the optimal timing sequences and demonstrate that the use of MRI to facilitate local therapy decision-
other technical details for image interpretation. The imaging center making improves local recurrence or survival.1
should have the ability to perform MRI-guided needle sampling and/ • May be helpful for breast cancer evaluation before and after
or image-guided localization of MRI-detected findings. preoperative systemic therapy to define extent of disease, response
to treatment, and potential for breast-conservation therapy.
• May be useful in identifying otherwise clinically occult disease
in patients presenting with axillary nodal metastases (cT0, cN+),
with Paget disease, or with invasive lobular carcinoma poorly (or
inadequately) defined on mammography, ultrasound, or physical
examination.
• False-positive findings on breast MRI are common. Surgical
decisions should not be based solely on the MRI findings. Additional
tissue sampling of areas of concern identified by breast MRI is
recommended.
• The utility of MRI in follow-up screening of most patients with prior
breast cancer is undefined and annual MRI is recommended in
patients with personal history of breast cancer who:2
1) were diagnosed at age ≤50 or
2) have dense breasts
1 Houssami N, Ciatto S, Macaskill P, et al. Accuracy and surgical impact of magnetic resonance imaging in breast cancer staging: systematic review and meta-analysis
in detection of multifocal and multicentric cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:3248-3258.
2 Monticciolo DL, Newell MS, Moy L, et al. Breast cancer screening for women at higher-than-average risk: Updated recommendations from the ACR. J Am Coll Radiol
2023;20:902-914.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-B
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
FERTILITY, BIRTH CONTROL, AND SEXUAL HEALTH
The general considerations for fertility and sexual health/function outlined for specific populations in NCCN Guidelines for
Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Oncology and NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship are applicable to all patients diagnosed with
breast cancer. See NCCN Guidelines for Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Oncology and NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship.
• All premenopausal patients should be informed about the potential • Although data are limited, hormone-based birth control is
impact of chemotherapy on fertility and asked about their desire discouraged regardless of the HR status of the patient's cancer.
for potential future pregnancies. Patients who may desire future • Alternative methods of birth control include intrauterine devices
pregnancies should be referred to fertility specialists before (IUDs), barrier methods, or, for patients with no intent of future
chemotherapy and/or endocrine therapy to discuss the options pregnancies, tubal ligation or vasectomy for the partner.
based on patient specifics, disease stage, and biology (which • Randomized trials have shown that ovarian suppression with
determine the urgency, type, and sequence of treatment). Timing GnRH agonist therapy administered during adjuvant chemotherapy
and duration allowed for fertility preservation, options inclusive in premenopausal patients with breast tumors (regardless of HR
of oocyte and embryo cryopreservation as well as evolving status) may preserve ovarian function and diminish the likelihood of
technologies, and the probability of successful pregnancies chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea.
subsequent to completion of breast cancer therapy are also to be • Smaller historical experiences in patients with ER-positive disease
discussed. have reported conflicting results with regard to the protective effect
• Although amenorrhea frequently occurs during or after of GnRH agonist therapy on fertility.
chemotherapy, it appears that the majority of patients <35 years • Breastfeeding following breast-conservation cancer treatment is
resume menses within 2 years of finishing adjuvant chemotherapy. not contraindicated. However, the quantity and quality of breast
• Menses and fertility are not necessarily linked. Absence of regular milk produced by the conserved breast may not be sufficient or
menses, particularly if the patient is taking tamoxifen, does not may be lacking some of the nutrients needed. Breastfeeding is
necessarily imply infertility. Conversely, the presence of menses not recommended during active treatment with chemotherapy and
does not guarantee fertility. There are limited data regarding endocrine therapy or within 6 months of completing trastuzumab or
continued fertility after chemotherapy. pertuzumab.
• Patients should be advised not to become pregnant while on any
systemic therapy, and specific drug package inserts should be
consulted for recommendations.
• A prospective trial (Partridge AH, Niman SM, Ruggeri M, et al.
Breast 2021;59:327-338) evaluated premenopausal patients who
had completed between 18–30 months of endocrine therapy before
temporarily interrupting endocrine therapy for up to 2 years to
allow for pregnancy. At short-term follow-up, the risk of recurrence
was not increased among those patients who enrolled or those
who became pregnant. This approach is an option for patients who
desire pregnancy, although long-term safety is still unknown.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-C
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
CONSIDERATIONS FOR SURGICAL AXILLARY STAGING
No palpable lymph SLN not identified ALND level I/IIf
node at diagnosis
or limited axillary
lymph node SLN negativec No further axillary surgery (category 1)
involvement SLN
on imaging
mapping and
confirmed by
needle biopsy
excisionb,c
± marker
p m la o c s e t m su e s n p ta ic i i n o u th s e • M c e T e 1 ts – T A 2 L , L T 3 o e f t c h N e 0 f o o l r l o p w N i 1 n m g i c c riteriag: No ALND level I/IIf
node SLN positivec • No preoperative chemotherapy
h
• 1–2 positive SLNs Yes No further
• Adjuvant RT planned i
to all axillary surgery
Clinically
suspicious
(palpable) lymph FNA or
nodes
core
or
Significant axillary US-guided FNA biopsy
lymph node or core biopsy negatived
disease burden on + marker
imaging No preoperative chemotherapy
placement
or FNA or
P sy re s o te p m er ic a t t i h ve e rapy r in e c th o e m m m o e s n t d eda core C pr o e n o s p id er e a r t ive cN+ remains clinically ALND level I/IIf
being considered suspicious biopsy chemotherapy Yes, positive
and suspicious positive preoperative
lymph nodes at node chemotherapy
diagnosis on exam cN+ converts to clinically SLNBj
or imaging node negative
a If a positive lymph node is clipped or tattooed during biopsy, every effort g ACOSOG Z0011: Giuliano AE, et al. JAMA 2017;318:918-926. EORTC AMAROS:
should be made to remove the clipped or tattooed node at the time of Donker M, et al. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:1303-1310; Ruters E, et al. Cancer Res
surgery. Only the most suspicious node should be marked and retrieved 2019;79 GS4-01-GS04-01. SENOMAC: de Boniface J, et al. N Engl J Med
along with SLNs to reduce the false negative rate. 2024;390:1163-1175. OTOASAR: Sávolt Á, et al. Ann Oncol 2017;28:v49. SINODAR-
b SLN mapping injections may be peritumoral, subareolar, or subdermal. One: Tinterri C, et al. Br J Surg 2023;110:1143-1152. Galimberti V, et al. Lancet Oncol
c Sentinel node involvement is defined by multilevel node sectioning with 2013;14:297-305.
hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining. Cytokeratin IHC may be used h Limited data exist for ≥3 positive SLNs.
for equivocal cases on H&E. Routine cytokeratin IHC to define node i In the mastectomy setting, in patients who were initially cN0, who have positive
involvement is not recommended in clinical decision-making. nodes on SLNB, and have no axillary dissection, RT to the chest wall should include
d If clinically negative axilla before chemotherapy and then have a positive undissected axilla at risk ± RNI.
sentinel node after chemotherapy, consider completion axillary lymph node j Among patients shown to be N+ prior to preoperative systemic therapy, SLNB has
dissection or multidisciplinary tumor board discussion on appropriateness a >10% false-negative rate when performed after preoperative systemic therapy,
of radiation of axilla without further surgery. which can be improved by marking and removing the most suspicious biopsied node,
e Limited data exist for T3 tumors. using dual tracers, and by obtaining ≥3 sentinel nodes (targeted axillary lymph node
f Axillary Lymph Node Staging (BINV-E). dissection). (Caudle AS, et al. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:1072-1078.)
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-D
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
AXILLARY LYMPH NODE STAGING
SLNB should be performed and is the preferred method of axillary lymph node staging if the patient is an appropriate SLNB candidate
(BINV-D).
In the absence of definitive data demonstrating superior survival, the performance of axillary staging may be considered optional in patients
who have particularly favorable tumors, patients for whom the selection of adjuvant systemic and/or RT is unlikely to be affected, or those
with serious comorbid conditions.a,b
Level III dissection to the thoracic inlet should be performed only in cases with gross disease in level II and/or lll.
In the absence of gross disease in level II nodes, lymph node dissection should include tissue inferior to the axillary vein from the latissimus
dorsi muscle laterally to the medial border of the pectoralis minor muscle (level I/II).
Lymphedema is a potential side effect after the treatment of axillary lymph node surgery resulting from damage to the lymphatic system.
Early detection/diagnosis of lymphedema is key for optimal management. Consider pretreatment measurement of both arms as a baseline for
patients with risk factors for lymphedema. See NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship: Lymphedema (SLYMPH-1).
a Sentinel node biopsy may be omitted based on the SSO Choosing Wisely recommendation in patients ≥70 years of age with HR+/HER2-negative and pT1, cN0
tumors (Hughes KS, et al. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2382-2387. Kunkler IH, et al. N Engl J Med 2023:388:585-594).
b Based on emerging data from the SOUND trial, patients with HR+/HER2-negative tumors, pT1, N0 (node negative by axillary ultrasound), may be considered for
omission of SLN biopsy. Gentilini OD, et al. JAMA Oncol 2023;9:1557-1564.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-E
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
MARGIN STATUS RECOMMENDATIONS AFTER BREAST-CONSERVING SURGERY (BCS) FOR INVASIVE CANCERS AND DCIS
• Margins should be evaluated on all surgical specimens from BCS. Accurate orientation of the surgical specimens is required for optimal
margin evaluation.
• Pathology report should include:
Description of the gross and microscopic margin status.
Reporting of the distance, orientation, and type of tumor (invasive or DCIS) in relation to the closest margin.
Quantification of the extent of disease that is approximating the inked margin.
• For mammographically detected DCIS with microcalcifications, complete resection should be documented by analysis of margins and
specimen radiography. Post-excision mammography can be considered if there is uncertainty.
• The NCCN Panel accepts the definitions of negative margins after breast-conservation therapy from the 2014 SSO/ASTRO Margins
Guideline1 for Stage I/II Invasive Cancers and the 2016 SSO/ASTRO/ASCO Guideline for DCIS.2 For patients with stage I or II invasive cancers
after BCS, a positive margin is defined as “ink on tumor” (any invasive cancer or DCIS cells on ink). These patients generally require further
surgery—either a re-excision to achieve a negative margin or a mastectomy. If re-excision is technically feasible to allow for BCS to achieve
“no ink on tumor,” this can be done with resection of the involved margin guided by the orientation of the initial resection specimen or re-
excision of the entire original excision cavity. There may be select patients with stage III invasive cancers who may be eligible for BCS. For
these patients, the margins status would be accessed with similar definitions.
DCIS
• For patients with pure DCIS treated by BCS and whole breast RT, a quantitative description of any tumor close to margin resection width
of at least 2 mm is associated with a reduced risk of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) relative to narrower negative margin widths,
while the routine practice of obtaining margins >2 mm to further improve outcomes is not supported by the evidence. When there is only
minimal or focal DCIS involvement near the margin, clinical judgment should be utilized to weigh the risks of re-excision with risk of
recurrence for an individual patient.
• For patients with DCIS treated with excision alone (no whole breast RT), regardless of margin width, there is a substantially higher rate of
IBTR than treatment with excision and whole breast RT, even in predefined, patients who are low risk. Although the optimal margin width
for treatment with excision alone is unknown, it should be at least 2 mm, with some evidence suggesting improved IBTR rates with margin
widths wider than 2 mm.
• DCIS with microinvasion (DCIS-M), defined as an invasive focus ≤1 mm in size, should refer to the DCIS margin definition when considering
the optimal margin width (>2 mm), given that the majority of DCIS-M is comprised of DCIS and systemic therapy utilization for this lesion
more closely reflects the treatment pattern for DCIS than for invasive carcinoma.
Continued
1 Moran MS, Schnitt SJ, Giuliano AE, et al. Society of Surgical Oncology-American Society for Radiation Oncology consensus guideline on margins for breast-
conserving surgery with whole-breast irradiation in stages I and II invasive breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:1507-1515.
2 Morrow M, Van Zee KJ, Solin LJ, et al. Society of Surgical Oncology-American Society for Radiation Oncology-American Society of Clinical Oncology Consensus
Guideline on Margins for Breast-Conserving Surgery With Whole-Breast Irradiation in Ductal Carcinoma In Situ. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:4040-4046.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-F
1 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
MARGIN STATUS RECOMMENDATIONS AFTER BCS FOR INVASIVE CANCERS AND DCIS
Invasive Breast Cancer
• For invasive breast cancers that have a component of DCIS, regardless of the extent of DCIS, the negative margin definition of “no ink on
tumor” should be based on the invasive margin guideline. In this setting, “no ink on tumor” is recommended for either DCIS or invasive
cancer cells, primarily because the natural history, treatment, and outcomes of these lesions are more similar to invasive cancer than DCIS.
For specifically challenging cases, clinical judgment and discussion with the patient should precede routine re-excision.
• These margin recommendations cannot be applied directly to patients undergoing APBI/PBI,1 where data regarding local recurrence are
more limited. Furthermore, individualized clinical judgment should be utilized on a case-by-case basis, using postoperative mammography
to identify residual calcifications and clinical-pathologic factors such as quantitative extent of disease near margin, presence of extensive
intraductal component (EIC),3 young age, or multiple close margins to assist in identifying patients who may have an increased risk of IBTR
and therefore may be selected to benefit from re-excision.
• For patients with invasive breast cancer after BCS, with microscopically focally positive margins (in the absence of an EIC),3 the use of a
higher radiation boost dose to the tumor bed may be considered, since generally a boost to the tumor bed is recommended for patients at
higher risk of recurrence. See BINV-I.
No ink on tumor 2-mm margin No margin necessary
Invasive breast cancer X
Invasive breast cancer + DCIS X
Invasive breast cancer + extensive DCIS X
Invasive breast cancer (treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy
X
followed by breast-conservation therapy)4,5
Pure DCIS X
DCIS with microinvasion X
Classic LCIS* at surgical margin X
Atypia at surgical margin X
*For pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS), the optimal width of margins is not known.
1 Moran MS, Schnitt SJ, Giuliano AE, et al. Society of Surgical Oncology-American Society for Radiation Oncology consensus guideline on margins for breast-
conserving surgery with whole-breast irradiation in stages I and II invasive breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:1507-1515.
3 EIC is defined as an infiltrating ductal cancer where >25% of the tumor volume is DCIS and DCIS extends beyond the invasive cancer into surrounding normal breast
parenchyma.
4 Choi J, Laws A, Hu J, et al. Margins in breast-conserving surgery after neoadjuvant therapy. Ann Surg Oncol 2018;25:3541-3547.
5 Wimmer K, Bolliger M, Bago-Horvath Z, et al. Impact of surgical margins in breast cancer after preoperative systemic chemotherapy on local recurrence and survival.
Ann Surg Oncol 2020;27:1700-1707.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-F
2 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
CONTRAINDICATIONS TO BREAST-CONSERVING APPROACHES REQUIRING RT
Absolute contraindications (mastectomy is recommended)
• Inflammatory breast cancer or invasive breast cancer with extensive skin or dermal lymphatic involvement
• Diffuse suspicious or malignant-appearing microcalcifications
• Inability to clear multiple positive pathologic margins after one or more re-excision attempts, see BINV-F
• Homozygous ATM mutation (often leads to ataxia-telangiectasia syndrome) (category 2B)a
• Multicentric disease with any of the following criteria1,b:
Receipt of neoadjuvant chemotherapy or endocrine therapy
Age ≤ 40
Triple negative breast cancer (ER-, PR-, and HER2-negative)
More than 2 lesions involving more than 2 quadrants by MRI evaluation
Any individual lesion ≥5 cm
BRCA mutation carrier
Multicentric pure DCIS
Inability to achieve negative margins (defined as no ink on tumor for invasive cancers ± DCIS), see BINV-F
cN2–N3
Any reason for precluding the delivery of adjuvant whole breast RT + boost
• Patients diagnosed with gestational breast cancer who cannot receive RT within 12–16 weeks.a See PREG-1.
Relative contraindications (mastectomy should be considered, but breast-conserving therapy may be appropriate)
• Patients with a known genetic predisposition to breast cancerb
• Pathologic p53 mutation (Li-Fraumeni syndrome) (category 2B)a,b
(See NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate)
• Active connective tissue disease involving the skin (eg, scleroderma or lupus)a
• A history of prior radiation therapy to the affected area; knowledge of doses and volumes prescribed is importanta,c,2
1 Boughey JC, Rosenkranz KM, Ballman KV, et al. Local recurrence after breast-conserving therapy in patients with multiple ipsilateral breast cancer: Results from
ACOSOG Z11102 (Alliance). J Clin Oncol 2023;41:3184-3193.
2 Arthur DW, Winter KA, Kuerer HM, et al. Effectiveness of breast-conserving surgery and 3-dimensional conformal partial breast reirradiation for recurrence of breast
cancer in the ipsilateral breast: The NRG Oncology/RTOG 1014 Phase 2 Clinical Trial. JAMA Oncol 2020;6:75-82.
a Contraindications to radiation delivery where toxicity may be increased.
b Patients with a known genetic predisposition to breast cancer may have an increased risk of contralateral or ipsilateral breast cancers after breast-conservation
therapy. Risk reduction strategies including prophylactic mastectomies should be discussed. See NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast,
Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate.
c For patients >40 years of age with 2 biopsy proven cTis-cT2 lesions (with at least one site invasive) after MRI evaluation, intending on adjuvant whole breast radiation
with boost, breast-conservation therapy may be considered. See Boughey JC, et al. J Clin Oncol 2023;41:3184-3193.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-G
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER SURGERY
No reconstruction required if ratio of
tumor to breast volume is small and
BCSc (mark minimal cosmetic deformity will result
cavity with clips or Delayed fat grafting
Consider oncoplastic reduction or
for subsequent
mastopexy and simultaneous or delayed
RT planning, Delayed flap for correction of contour
contralateral matching procedure RT
particularly in cases defects performed ≥6 months after RT
or
of oncoplastic tissue
Consider bilateral breast reduction if
rearrangement/ symptoms warrant breast reduction Contralateral reduction/mastopexy
reduction)d
or
for symmetry
Local tissue rearrangement, regional
flap (LD, partial LD, TDAP) Reconstruction Based on Planned
Adjuvant RT (BINV-H 2)
History of RT or adjuvant RT needed or
Reconstruction Based on History of
Carcinoma
in situa,b RT (BINV-H 3)
or
Mastectomye
No history of RT/no adjuvant RT needed Implant, autologous, or combination reconstruction
Invasive
carcinoma Reconstruction Based on Unknown
Unknown RT history or need for RT History of RT or Unknown Need for
Postmastectomy RT (BINV-H 4)
IBC Delayed reconstruction
(Special Cases, [BINV-H 7])
a General Principles of Breast Reconstruction (BINV-H 5).
b Patient Factors Affecting Choice of Reconstruction (BINV-H 6).
c An evaluation of the likely cosmetic outcome of BCS should be performed prior to surgery.
Oncoplastic techniques for breast conservation can extend breast-conserving surgical options
in situations where the resection by itself would likely yield an unacceptable cosmetic outcome.
Application of these oncoplastic techniques may reduce the need for mastectomy and decrease d Consider staged partial mastectomy reconstruction (oncoplastic
the need for a secondary surgery to minimize breast deformity. Patients should be informed of approaches) if preoperative margin status is unclear (lobular,
the possibility of positive margins and potential need for secondary surgery, which could include multifocal/centric).
either segmental re-excision, or mastectomy with or without loss of the nipple. Systematic e As with any mastectomy, there is a risk of locoregional cancer
oncoplastic reduction specimen orientation as well as highly specific operative documentation recurrence, and evidence suggests skin-sparing or skin- and
regarding tissue rearrangement should be conducted. Enhanced communication between the nipple-sparing mastectomy is probably equivalent to standard
radiation oncology team and reconstructive team will be necessary for boost cavity localization mastectomy in this regard. Indications for PMRT following skin-
for RT treatment planning (Shah C, et al. Ann Surg Oncol 2018;25:2509-2511). sparing mastectomy should not differ from standard mastectomy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-H
1 OF 7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER SURGERY
RECONSTRUCTION BASED ON PLANNED ADJUVANT RTa,b
Tissue expansion followed by exchange to implant prior to the initiation of RTk
2 stage: tissue expander
followed by permanent
implant (prepectoral, partial
submuscular, or total
submuscular tissue expander)
Tissue expansion followed by RT and delayed exchange to implantj,k
Implant-based
≥6 months after completion of RT
reconstruction
plannedf
1 stage: direct to implanth
Immediate autologous reconstructioni
Autologous
reconstruction Delayed reconstruction ≥6 months after the completion of RTi
plannedg
Place tissue expander at the time of surgery, followed by expansion, RT, and delayed autologous reconstructioni,j
≥6 months after completion of RT
a General Principles of Breast Reconstruction (BINV-H 5).
b Patient Factors Affecting Choice of Reconstruction (BINV-H 6).
f The use of RT significantly increases the baseline risk of capsular contracture, i Consider delaying autologous reconstruction until after RT is completed, as RT to
aesthetic deformity, malposition, implant exposure, infection, and reconstructive a flap may cause loss of cosmesis and/or fat necrosis.
failure. j Consultation with radiation oncologists may be necessary to determine if volume
g Common donor sites for autologous tissue include the abdomen (ie, DIEP, MS- of contralateral tissue expander will affect RT treatment planning. In some cases,
TRAM, SIEA, free TRAM, pedicled TRAM), gluteal region (ie, SGAP, IGAP), thigh contralateral deflation may be required prior to CT simulation. Radiation oncology
(ie, TUG, VUG, DUG, PAP), or the back (ie, LD, TDAP, LAP). consultation should also be requested in cases of an anticipated close or positive
h Determined by preoperative size and ptosis, patient desire of postoperative size, deep margin, as this may impact the optimal placement of the expander (pre- vs.
and assessment intraoperatively of skin and soft-tissue quality and perfusion, with subpectoral). Clips to identify the close/positive margins should be placed to
consideration for patient-specific relative contraindications (eg, smoking, obesity) assist in delineating the tumor bed boost.
to single-stage versus two-stage approaches. Healing issues may occur and k Exchange of tissue expander to implant should be timed to avoid any delay in
delay initiation of RT. adjuvant RT.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-H
2 OF 7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER SURGERY
RECONSTRUCTION BASED ON PRIOR HISTORY OF RTa,b
Autologous (preferred) or combinationn
Adequatem 1 stage: direct to implant
Recurrent 2 stage: tissue expander
carcinoma after Assess soft tissue preoperatively followed by implant
breast conservation and intraoperativelyl
including RT
Inadequatem Autologous (preferred) or combinationn,o
Autologous (preferred) or combinationn,o
Adequatem
2 stage: tissue expander followed by
Delayed implant or autologous tissue
Assess soft tissue preoperatively
reconstruction after
and intraoperativelyl
mastectomy and RT
Inadequatem Autologous (preferred) or combinationn,o
a General Principles of Breast Reconstruction (BINV-H 5). n Addition of latissimus or other regional or free flap to prosthetics in the patient
b Patient Factors Affecting Choice of Reconstruction (BINV-H 6). who has previously had irradiation mitigates many of the effects specified in the
l Assessment includes clinical examination and may also include intraoperative previous footnote.
technologies to assess perfusion. o In the patient with delayed reconstruction, there is often limited soft tissue even
m In patients with a history of RT to the breast, implant-based reconstruction with the addition of a latissimus flap. Therefore, latissimus flap + tissue expander
carries a significantly increased risk of capsular contracture, aesthetic deformity, placement may be required if a permanent implant cannot be accommodated
malposition, implant exposure, infection, and reconstructive failure. under the latissimus flap.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-H
3 OF 7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER SURGERY
RECONSTRUCTION BASED ON NO OR UNKNOWN HISTORY OF RT OR
UNKNOWN NEED FOR POSTMASTECTOMY RTa,b Exchange tissue expander to implant
No RT planned or
Tissue Convert to autologous tissue reconstruction
Adjuvant
chemotherapy expansion Exchange tissue expander to permanent implantf,j
during
Immediate placement planned (prior to initiation of RT, if no delay to initiation of RT or
chemotherapy
of tissue expander at RT planned ≥6 months after RT)
or
the time of mastectomy
Conversion to autologous tissue reconstruction
(prepectoral, partial
≥6 months after RT
submuscular, total
submuscular tissue
Tissue expansion followed by exchange to permanent
expander placement)f No RT planned
No adjuvant implant or autologous tissue reconstruction
chemotherapy
planned
RT planned Tissue expansion followed by RT; conversion
to permanent implant or autologous tissue ≥6
1 stage: direct to implanth months after completion of RT (category 2B)j
or
or Consider revisional surgeries
Tissue expansion followed by exchange to
Immediate autologous to the ipsilateral or contralateral
permanent implant before RT (if no delay to
reconstruction or latissimus dorsi breast after RT if needed
with implant at time of mastectomyi initiation of RT)
RT not required Reconstruction with implant, autologous tissue, or a combination
Delayed reconstruction
RT required Reconstruction Based on History of RT (BINV-H 3)
a General Principles of Breast Reconstruction (BINV-H 5).
b Patient Factors Affecting Choice of Reconstruction (BINV-H 6). i Consider delaying autologous reconstruction until after RT is completed, as RT to
f The use of RT significantly increases the baseline risk of capsular contracture, a flap may cause loss of cosmesis and/or fat necrosis.
aesthetic deformity, malposition, implant exposure, infection, and reconstructive j Consultation with radiation oncologists may be necessary to determine if volume
failure. of contralateral tissue expander will affect RT treatment planning. In some
h Determined by preoperative size and ptosis, patient desire of postoperative size, cases, contralateral deflation may be required prior to CT simulation. Radiation
and assessment intraoperatively of skin and soft-tissue quality and perfusion, oncology consultation should also be requested in cases of an anticipated
with consideration for patient-specific relative contraindications (eg, smoking, close or positive deep margin, as this may impact the optimal placement of
obesity) to single-stage versus two-stage approaches. Healing issues may occur the expander (pre- vs. subpectoral). Clips to identify the close/positive margins
and delay initiation of RT. should be placed to assist in delineating the tumor bed boost.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-H
4 OF 7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER SURGERY
General Principles of Breast Reconstruction
• Breast reconstruction may be an option for any patient receiving surgical treatment for breast cancer. All patients undergoing breast
cancer treatment should be educated about breast reconstructive options as adapted to their individual clinical situation. However,
breast reconstruction should not interfere with the appropriate surgical, medical, and radiation management of the cancer or the scope of
appropriate surgical treatment for this disease. Coordinating consultation and surgical treatment with a reconstructive surgeon should be
executed within a reasonable time frame. The process of breast reconstruction should not govern the timing or the scope of appropriate
surgical treatment for this disease. The availability of or the practicality of breast reconstruction should not result in the delay or refusal of
appropriate surgical, medical, and radiation intervention.
• Some patients may choose not to have reconstruction after mastectomy. The option to undergo mastectomy alone with a surgically
optimized closure should be offered to all patients as part of a comprehensive discussion of reconstructive options. Achieving the optimal
result in this scenario may require additional procedures beyond the initial mastectomy. See BINV-H (6) for patient factors influencing choice
of reconstruction.
• Selection of reconstructive option and timing of reconstruction option is based on an assessment of cancer treatment, body habits of
patients, obesity, smoking history, comorbidities, and patient concerns. Smoking and obesity (WHO Class 2 and 3) increase the risk of
perioperative complications for all types of breast reconstruction. Patients with these high-risk factors should be counseled about their
increased risk for complications following breast reconstruction, including donor site complications/hernias and bulges of the abdominal
wall, delayed healing, mastectomy skin flap necrosis, total flap failure (obesity), and implant failure (smoking).
• Nipple areolar reconstruction should be offered to patients if the nipple-areolar complex (NAC) has been removed as part of their cancer
treatment. Various techniques are available for nipple reconstruction. Three-dimensional (3-D) tattooing can be offered to patients as an
option for NAC reconstruction.
• Additionally, patients who are not satisfied with the cosmetic outcome following completion of breast cancer treatment should be offered
reconstructive surgery consultation.
• Patients known to harbor genetic mutations that increase the risk of breast cancer may opt to undergo bilateral prophylactic mastectomies
with reconstruction. Reconstruction can be performed with prosthetic, autologous tissue, or a combination of implant with autologous
tissue.
• Skin-sparing mastectomy should be performed by an experienced breast surgery team that works in a coordinated, multidisciplinary fashion
to guide proper patient selection for skin-sparing mastectomy, determine optimal sequencing of the reconstructive procedure(s) in relation
to adjuvant therapies, and perform a resection that achieves appropriate surgical margins.
• Revisional surgery may be necessary after breast reconstruction. This may include procedures such as fat grafting, mastopexy, direct
excision/suction-assisted lipectomy, contralateral procedures (in cases of unilateral reconstruction), and others. Patients should be informed
before reconstruction that revision surgery may be necessary.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-H
5 OF 7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER SURGERY
Patient Factors Influencing Breast Reconstruction
• Breast reconstruction is elective and patients may choose to not have breast reconstruction. Individual patients present preoperatively with
a variety of factors that may impact the choice of reconstruction, the risk of complications, donor site morbidity, and aesthetic result. Each
of these factors must be taken into account, along with patient desire, to choose the optimal method of reconstruction.
• Patient desire
The patient may have a strong feeling towards one form of reconstruction after being given the options. Breast reconstruction should be a
shared decision.
• Medical comorbidities
Medical comorbidities may preclude longer reconstructive procedures such as autologous tissue reconstruction in some patients.
The selection of the reconstructive method of choice should take into consideration patient comorbidities.
Poorly controlled diabetes is a risk factor for postoperative complications in both implant and autologous tissue reconstruction.
Patients should be screened for personal or familial thrombophilia. Thrombophilia may result in reconstructive failure of microsurgical
reconstruction or thromboembolic events.
• Tobacco use
Smoking has been associated with increased risk of delayed wound healing, mastectomy flap necrosis, NAC necrosis in the setting of
nipple-sparing mastectomy, infection, and failure of implant-based reconstruction. In free flap reconstruction, smoking increases the risk
of donor complications. Patients should be encouraged to stop smoking prior to reconstruction.
Smoking has not definitively been shown to increase the risk of microvascular thrombosis in free flap breast reconstruction.
• Breast size/shape
If patient has significant macromastia or ptosis, consideration can be given to a reduction pattern mastectomy with either implant-based or
autologous tissue reconstruction, or oncoplastic reduction techniques.
The volume limitations of implants may preclude an acceptable reconstruction in patients with macromastia if preservation of volume is a
priority.
• BMI
Patients with a markedly elevated BMI may be at increased risk of infectious complications and seromas as well as donor site
complications from autologous reconstruction, including delayed healing and hernia formation. Immediate reconstruction can be
performed, but delayed reconstruction can be considered if the patient is motivated to lose weight. Oncoplastic reduction techniques can
be considered if the breast is large/ptotic.
• Breast implant-associated anaplastic large cell lymphoma (BIA-ALCL) and other rare implant-associated malignancies
BIA-ALCL commonly presents with delayed periprosthetic effusion and breast asymmetry occurring >1 year after implantation.
Rarely, BIA-ALCL can present with a mass, regional lymphadenopathy, overlying skin rash, and/or capsular contracture.
Similar symptoms can also be seen in breast implant associated squamous cell carcinoma (BIA-SCC), another rare implant associated
malignancy. Individuals with breast implants have a very small risk of developing BIA-ALCL (average 7–9 years after implantation) and BIA-
SCC (average 22 years after implantation).
The majority of cases of BIA-ALCL have been seen in textured implants, while BIA-SCC is associated with either smooth or textured
implants. Rare cases of implant associated diffuse large B-cell lymphomas have also been reported. See NCCN Guidelines for T-Cell
Lymphomas.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-H
6 OF 7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER SURGERY
Special Cases
• Nipple-sparing mastectomy
NAC-sparing procedures may be an option in patients with cancer who are carefully selected by experienced multidisciplinary teams.
Retrospective data support the use of NAC-sparing procedures for early-stage breast cancer, DCIS, risk-reduction procedures, and in
some locally advanced invasive cancers (ie, with complete clinical response to preoperative chemotherapy and no nipple involvement with
cancer).
Contraindications to NAC include: Preoperative clinical or radiographic evidence of nipple involvement, including Paget disease, bloody
nipple discharge associated with malignancy, IBC, and/or imaging findings suggesting malignant involvement of the nipple or subareolar
tissues.
Nipple margin assessment is mandatory and should be clearly designated on the specimen.
Preoperative breast size, shape, and nipple position should also be considered in the decision to perform NAC-sparing mastectomy.
Patients with small to moderate breast volume with good nipple position are ideal candidates. In patients with large or significantly ptotic
breasts, NAC-sparing mastectomies may be offered in select cases by using various reduction patterns or delay techniques to augment
the NAC perfusion, either in an immediate or delayed fashion, as long as it does not delay oncologic care. Intraoperative assessment of the
NAC perfusion should also guide the decision to preserve the NAC or remove it.
Patients should be counseled on the risk of delayed healing, nipple necrosis, loss of pigmentation, loss of sensation, loss of projection,
and need for subsequent removal of the NAC.
Topical 2% nitroglycerine (45 mg total dose) used prophylactically has been shown to reduce mastectomy skin flap necrosis in both skin-
sparing mastectomy and nipple sparing mastectomy in one randomized control trial.
• Inflammatory breast cancer
Delayed reconstruction after mastectomy for IBC remains the clinical standard for several reasons. The need to resect involved skin
negates the benefit of skin-sparing mastectomy for immediate reconstruction, and high rates of local and distant recurrence warrant
comprehensive RNI in a timely fashion, which may be technically more challenging or subject to delay after immediate reconstruction.
Advances in multimodal therapy have improved 5-year survival in patients with IBC, justifying clinical studies to see if immediate
reconstruction may be appropriate for certain patients with IBC, but neither the outcomes nor the clinical features to predict such
outcomes are known at this time.
In the uncommon clinical circumstance that the extent of skin excision at the time of mastectomy precludes primary or local closure,
reconstruction of the chest wall defect with autologous tissue is necessary, and concomitant immediate reconstruction may be
accomplished.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-H
7 OF 7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Optimizing Delivery of Individual Therapy
• It is important to individualize RT planning and delivery.
3-D CT-based treatment planning should routinely be utilized to delineate target volumes & organs at risk, and assess dose distribution
across the entire treatment volume.
Radiation is generally delivered with single or mixed energy photons ± electrons.
Treatment planning should be optimized to maximally improve homogeneity across the target volume while minimizing dose to organs at
risk.
Additional techniques such as respiratory control (deep inspiration breath-hold), prone positioning, and cardiac blocks may also be used
to try to further reduce dose to heart, lung, and adjacent normal tissue.
At a minimum, weekly imaging to verify treatment setup should be utilized. More frequent imaging may be needed for selected cases with
inconsistent reproducibility. Image-guided radiation therapy (IGRT) may be utilized with deep inspiration breath-hold (DIBH) technique to
reduce normal tissue exposure of the heart, lung or liver.
Dose-volume histograms (DVHs) should be used to evaluate dose, normal tissue constraints (ie, heart, lung), and planning target volumes
(PTVs).
• It is common for RT to follow chemotherapy when chemotherapy is indicated. See BINV-I 2 of 3.
• In the setting of oligometastatic breast cancer, the currently available data do not support ablative metastasis-directed RT (ie, SBRT) for
extending overall survival OS or PFS. In some cases, SBRT may be preferred over palliative radiotherapy to provide more durable local
control and pain relief.
Whole Breast RT
• Target definition is the breast tissue at risk.
• RT dosing:
The whole breast should receive a hypofractionated dose of 40–42.5 Gy in 15–16 fractions; in selected cases 45–50.4 Gy in 25–28 fractions
may be considered.
A boost to the tumor bed is recommended in patients at higher risk for recurrence. The boost can be given sequentially after whole
breast RT or as a simultaneous integrated boost. Typical boost doses when given sequentially are 10–16 Gy in 4–8 fractions. When given
concurrently, the whole breast should receive 40 Gy in 15 fractions and the lumpectomy site should receive 48 Gy in 15 fractions.a,b
Ultra-hypofractionated whole breast RT of 28.5 Gy in 5 (once-a-week) fractions may be considered for selected patients over 50 years
following BCS with early-stage, node-negative disease, particularly those in whom a boost is not intended.c,d
• Lumpectomy cavity boost can be delivered using enface electrons, photons, or brachytherapy.
a Vicini FA, Winter K, Freedman GM, et al. NRG RTOG 1005: A phase III trial of hypo fractionated whole breast irradiation with concurrent boost vs. conventional whole
breast irradiation plus sequential boost following lumpectomy for high risk early-stage breast cancer. Int J Radiation Oncol 2022;114;S1.
b Coles CE, Haviland JS, Kirby AM, et al. Dose-escalated simultaneous integrated boost radiotherapy in early breast cancer (IMPORT HIGH): a multicentre, phase 3,
non-inferiority, open-label, randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2023;401:2124-2137.
c Alternatively, 26 Gy in 5 daily fractions over one week may be considered, though data beyond 5 years for local relapse or toxicity are not yet available for this
regimen. (Murray Brunt A, Haviland JS, Wheatley DA, et al. Hypofractionated breast radiotherapy for 1 week versus 3 weeks [FAST-Forward]: 5-year efficacy and late
normal tissue effects results from a multicentre, non-inferiority, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2020;395:1613-1626.)
d Brunt AM, Haviland JS, Sydenham M, et al. Ten-year results of FAST: A randomized controlled trial of 5-fraction whole-breast radiotherapy for early breast cancer. J
Clin Oncol 2020;38:3261-3272.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-I
1 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
PMRT (including breast reconstruction)
• The target includes the ipsilateral chest wall and the clinically relevant mastectomy scar ± drain sites.
Regional nodal RT is typically delivered with the chest wall. See below.
• In the case of cT3N0, high-risk features for considering PMRT include, but are not limited to, young age and/or LVI.
• Based on anatomic considerations and presence of reconstruction, various 3-D-, intensity modulated radiation therapy [IMRT], or volumetric modulated arc
therapy (VMAT) techniques using photons and/or electrons are appropriate.
• PMRT details and dosing:
The routine use of bolus is not recommended. Bolus should be used for inflammatory breast cancer and considered in clinically relevant situations
where the dose to the skin may not be adequate.
Chest wall RT dose may be delivered in conventional dosing of 45–50.4 Gy in 25–28 fractions or moderately hypofractionated dosing of 40–42.5 Gy in
15–16 fractions.
In patients who are at high risk for local recurrence, a chest wall scar boost may be considered of approximately 10 Gy delivered in 4-5 fractions with or
without bolus.
Regional Nodal Radiation
• For supra/infra-clavicular and axillary nodes, prescription depth varies based on the patient anatomy.
e,f
• Regional nodes should be contoured when when RNI is indicated. Refer to breast atlases for contouring guidelines.
• RT dosing:
RT doses to the regional nodes of 46–50 Gy (conventional fractionation) or 39–42 Gy (moderately fractionated) dosing schedules similar to PMRT and
whole breast may be considered.
A supplemental boost of RT can be delivered to grossly involved or enlarged lymph nodes (ie, internal mammary, supra/infra-clavicular) that have not
been surgically removed.
RT with Preoperative or Adjuvant Systemic Therapy
• In patients treated with preoperative systemic therapy, adjuvant RT is based on the maximal disease stage (ie, clinical stage, pathologic stage, tumor
characteristics) at diagnosis (before preoperative systemic therapy) and pathology results after preoperative systemic therapy.
• Sequencing of RT with systemic therapy:
It is common for RT to follow chemotherapy when chemotherapy is indicated. However,
– CMF (cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil) is the only standard regimen that can be given concurrently with RT.
– Capecitabine is typically given after completion of RT.
– Olaparib should be given after completion of RT.
Available data suggest that sequential or concurrent endocrine therapy with RT is acceptable. Due to compounding side effects, initiating endocrine
therapy at the completion of RT may be preferred.
◊ Abemaciclib or ribociclib should be initiated after completion of surgery/RT/chemotherapy, concurrently with endocrine therapy.
Adjuvant HER2-targeted therapy ± endocrine therapy may be delivered concurrently with RT.
e Offersen BV, Boersma LJ, Kirkove C, et al. ESTRO consensus guideline on target volume delineation for elective radiation therapy of early stage breast cancer.
Radiother Oncol 2015;114:3-10.
f Gentile MS, Usman AA, Neuschler EI, et al. Contouring guidelines for the axillary lymph nodes for the delivery of radiation therapy in breast cancer: Evaluation of the
RTOG Breast Cancer Atlas. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015;93:257-265.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-I
2 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation (APBI)/Partial Breast Irradiation (PBI)
• The NCCN Panel endorses APBI/PBI for any patient without germline BRCA 1/2 mutations who meets the criteria outlined in the 2023
ASTRO guidelines. Patients aged ≥40 years are recommended "suitable" for APBI/PBI if they have:
Invasive ER-positive ductal carcinoma measuring ≤2 cm (pT1 disease), grade 1–2, with negative margin widths, no LVSI, and negative
nodes
Or
 DCIS measuring size ≤2 cm with low-intermediate grade with negative margins
• APBI offers comparable local control and comparable or improved cosmesis to whole breast RT when delivered with the following dose
regimens. The APBI regimens have not been compared directly but 30 Gy/5 fractions is preferred based on the highest rated cosmesis
outcomes.
• RT dosing:
Dose Regimen
EBRT APBI
30 Gy/5 fractions QOD • Livi L, Meattini I, Marrazzo L, et al. Accelerated partial breast irradiation using intensity-modulated radiotherapy versus whole breast irradiation: 5-year
(preferred); survival analysis of a phase 3 randomised controlled trial. Eur J Cancer 2015;51:451-463.
IMRT/VMAT protocol • Meattini I, Marrazzo L, Saieva C, et al. Accelerated partial-breast irradiation compared with whole-breast irradiation for early breast cancer: Long-term
mandated results of the randomized phase III APBI-IMRT-Florence Trial. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:4175-4183.
• Franceschini D, Loi M, Chiola I, et al. Preliminary results of a randomized study on postmenopausal women with early stage breast cancer: Adjuvant
hypofractionated whole breast irradiation versus accelerated partial breast irradiation (HYPAB Trial). Clin Breast Cancer 2021;21:231-238.
• Lo Faro L, Fogliata A, Franceschini D, et al. Adjuvant hypofractionated whole breast irradiation (WBI) vs. accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) in
postmenopausal women with early stage breast cancer: 5 years update of the HYPAB trial. Clin Breast Cancer 2024;24:253-260.
40 Gy/15 fractions • Coles CE, Griffin CL, Kirby AM, et al. Partial-breast radiotherapy after breast conservation surgery for patients with early breast cancer (UK IMPORT LOW
trial): 5-year results from a multicentre, randomised, controlled, phase 3, non-inferiority trial. Lancet 2017;390:1048-1060.
Brachytherapy APBI (including balloon/interstitial)
34 Gy/10 fractions BID; • Vicini FA, Cecchini RS, White JR, et al. Long-term primary results of accelerated partial breast irradiation after breast-conserving surgery for early-stage
32 Gy/8 fractions BID; breast cancer: a randomised, phase 3, equivalence trial. Lancet 2019;394:2155-2164.
30.1 Gy/7 fractions BID • Strnad V, Ott OJ, Hildebrandt G, et al. 5-year results of accelerated partial breast irradiation using sole interstitial multicatheter brachytherapy versus whole-
breast irradiation with boost after breast-conserving surgery for low-risk invasive and in-situ carcinoma of the female breast: a randomised, phase 3, non-
inferiority trial. Lancet 2016;387:229-238.
• Polgár C, Ott OJ, Hildebrandt G, et al. Late side-effects and cosmetic results of accelerated partial breast irradiation with interstitial brachytherapy versus
whole-breast irradiation after breast-conserving surgery for low-risk invasive and in-situ carcinoma of the female breast: 5-year results of a randomised,
controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:259-268.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-I
3 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR BREAST CANCER IN MALES (SEX ASSIGNED AT BIRTH)
NCCN recommendations have been developed to be inclusive of individuals of all sexual and gender identities to the greatest extent
possible. On this page, the terms males and females refer to sex assigned at birth.
• Few males have been included in breast cancer trials.1 Therefore, recommendations regarding management of breast cancer in males are
generally extrapolated from findings of clinical trials focusing on breast cancer in females.
• Although there are some biologic and clinical differences between breast cancer in males and females, management of breast cancer in
males is similar overall to management of breast cancer in females, with the following special considerations pertinent to male patients2:
Genetics: The NCCN Panel recommends consideration of genetic testing for all males with breast cancer (See NCCN Guidelines for
Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, Pancreatic, and Prostate).
Breast surgery: Historically, males with breast cancer have undergone mastectomy more often than BCS. However, breast-conservation
therapy is increasingly being performed in males and evolving data indicate that breast conservation in males is associated with
equivalent outcomes to mastectomy and that it is safe and feasible. Decisions about breast conservation versus mastectomy in males
should be made according to similar criteria as for females.2-9
Axillary lymph node surgery: As in females, SLNB should be performed in the setting of male breast cancer with a clinically node-negative
axilla.2,4
RT: Indications for radiation after breast surgery in males with breast cancer are the same as for females with breast cancer.2,5,10,11
Use of molecular assays: Data are limited regarding the use of molecular assays to assess prognosis and to predict benefit from
chemotherapy in males with breast cancer.2 Available data suggest the 21-gene assay recurrence score provides prognostic information
in males with breast cancer.12,13
Preoperative/adjuvant systemic therapy: Chemotherapy with/without HER2-targeted therapy should be recommended for males with
breast cancer according to guidelines for females with breast cancer.2 Options for adjuvant endocrine therapy for males with breast
cancer include tamoxifen for 5–10 years or, if tamoxifen is contraindicated, a GnRH analog plus an aromatase inhibitor. In males, single-
agent adjuvant treatment with an aromatase inhibitor has been associated with inferior outcomes compared to tamoxifen alone, likely due
to inadequate estradiol suppression, and is not recommended.2,14-17
Follow-up after treatment for early-stage disease: There are only limited data to support screening for breast cancer in males.2 The NCCN
Panel recommends that bone density be assessed at baseline and every 2 years in males with breast cancer who receive adjuvant GnRH
analog therapy. Low bone density should be managed according to standard guidelines.18
Systemic therapy for advanced disease: Management of advanced breast cancer in males is similar to that in females; however, it is
preferred that when an aromatase inhibitor is used, a GnRH analog should be given concurrently.2 Available data suggest single-agent
fulvestrant has similar efficacy in males as in females.19 CDK4/6 inhibitors in combination with an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant,
mTOR inhibitors, and PIK3CA inhibitors have not been systematically evaluated in clinical trials in males with breast cancer. However,
available real-world data suggest comparable efficacy and safety profiles and it is reasonable to recommend these agents to males
based on extrapolation of data from studies comprised largely of female participants with advanced breast cancer. Indications for and
recommendations regarding chemotherapy, HER2-targeted therapy, immunotherapy, and PARP inhibitors for advanced breast cancer in
males are similar to those for advanced breast cancer in females.1
References on BINV-J 2 of 2
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-J
1 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SPECIAL CONSIDERATIONS FOR BREAST CANCER IN MALES (SEX ASSIGNED AT BIRTH)
REFERENCES
1 Duma N, Hoversten KP, Ruddy KJ. Exclusion of male patients in breast cancer clinical trials. JNCI Cancer Spectr 2018;2:pky018.
2 Gao Y, Goldberg JE, Young TK, et al. Breast cancer screening in high-risk men: A 12-year longitudinal observational study of male breast imaging utilization and
outcomes. Radiology 2019;293:282-291.
3 Cardoso F, Bartlett JMS, Slaets L, et al. Characterization of male breast cancer: results of the EORTC 10085/TBCRC/BIG/NABCG International Male Breast
Cancer Program. Ann Oncol 2018;29:405-417.
4 Cloyd JM, Hernandez-Boussard T, Wapnir IL. Outcomes of partial mastectomy in male breast cancer patients: analysis of SEER, 1983-2009. Ann Surg Oncol
2013;20:1545-1550.
5 Bateni SB, Davidson AJ, Arora M, et al. Is breast-conserving therapy appropriate for male breast cancer patients? A National Cancer Database analysis. Ann Surg
Oncol 2019;26:2144-2153.
6 Zaenger D, Rabatic BM, Dasher B, Mourad WF. Is breast conserving therapy a safe modality for early-stage male breast cancer? Clin Breast Cancer
2016;16:101-104.
7 Leone J, Zwenger AO, Leone BA, et al. Overall survival of men and women with breast cancer according to tumor subtype: A population-based study. Am J Clin
Oncol 2019;42:215-220.
8 Elmi M, Sequeira S, Azin A, et al. Evolving surgical treatment decisions for male breast cancer: an analysis of the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program
(NSQIP) database. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2018;171:427-434.
9 Fields EC, DeWitt P, Fisher CM, Rabinovitch R. Management of male breast cancer in the United States: a surveillance, epidemiology and end results analysis.
Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2013;87:747-752.
10 Flynn LW, Park J, Patil SM, et al. Sentinel lymph node biopsy is successful and accurate in male breast carcinoma. J Am Coll Surg 2008;206:616-621.
11 Jardel P, Vignot S, Cutuli B, et al. Should adjuvant radiation therapy be systematically proposed for male breast cancer? A systematic review. Anticancer Res
2018;38:23-31.
12 Massarweh SA, Sledge GW, Miller DP, et al. Molecular characterization and mortality from breast cancer in men. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:1396-1404.
13 Grenader T, Yerushalmi R, Tokar M, et al. The 21-gene recurrence score assay (Oncotype DX) in estrogen receptor-positive male breast cancer: experience in
an Israeli cohort. Oncology 2014;87:1-6.
14 Hayes FJ, Seminara SB, Decruz S, et al. Aromatase inhibition in the human male reveals a hypothalamic site of estrogen feedback. J Clin Endocrinol Metab
2000;85:3027-3035.
15 Mauras N, O'Brien KO, Klein KO, Hayes V. Estrogen suppression in males: metabolic effects. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2000;85:2370-2377.
16 Eggemann H, Ignatov A, Smith BJ, et al. Adjuvant therapy with tamoxifen compared to aromatase inhibitors for 257 male breast cancer patients. Breast Cancer
Res Treat 2013;137:465-470.
17 Harlan LC, Zujewski JA, Goodman MT, Stevens JL. Breast cancer in men in the United States: a population-based study of diagnosis, treatment, and survival.
Cancer 2010;116:3558-3568.
18 Gralow JR, Biermann JS, Farooki A, et al. NCCN Task Force Report: Bone Health In Cancer Care. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2013;11 Suppl 3:S1-50; quiz S51.
19 Zagouri F, Sergentanis TN, Chrysikos D, et al. Fulvestrant and male breast cancer: a case series. Ann Oncol 2013;24:265-266.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-J
2 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF ADJUVANT ENDOCRINE THERAPY
(for pT1-3,pN+,M0)
General Principles Ovarian function assessment
a
• Hormone receptor-positive (HR+) tumors: Breast tumors may be positive for • Menopausal status cannot be determined while receiving OFS.
estrogen receptors (ER+), progesterone receptors (PR+) or both (ER+/PR+). See • Monitor estradiol and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH)/luteinizing
Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A). hormone (LH) levels:
ER+ tumors: ER testing should be used to determine if a patient is a candidate If under 60 years and amenorrheic for ≤12 months prior to
for endocrine therapies. a Patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER IHC staining treatment with adjuvant endocrine therapy
are considered ER+ and eligible for endocrine therapies, there are limited Amenorrheic after chemotherapy or after tamoxifen +/- ovarian
efficacy data on the subgroup of cancers with ER-low-positive (1%–10%) results. function suppression (OFS).
The ER-low-positive group is heterogeneous with reported biologic behavior After switching from tamoxifen to an AI, or if taken off OFS
often similar to ER-negative cancers; thus, individualized consideration of risks Prior to next dose of GNRH agonist, particularly in women under
versus benefits of endocrine therapy and additional adjuvant therapies should 45 years. Frequency of testing of estradiol and FSH/LH levels
be incorporated into decision-making. should be individualized.
PR+ tumors: Patients with ER-negative, PR+ cancers may be considered for • AI can stimulate ovarian function. If vaginal bleeding occurs while
endocrine therapies, but the data on this group are noted to be limited. The same on AI, contact physician immediately.
overall interpretation principles apply but PR should be interpreted as either Methods for OFS
positive (if 1%–100% of cells have nuclear staining) or negative (if <1% or 0% of • GNRH agonists
cells have nuclear staining). Goserelin 3.6 mg SC every 4 weeks or 10.8 mg SC every 12 weeks
• The majority of hormone sensitive tumors are ER+/PR+ or ER+/PR-negative. Leuprolide 3.75–7.5 mg IM or SC every 4 weeks or 11.25–22.5 mg IM
Considering that ER -negative/PR+ tumors are relatively uncommon, in these or SC every 12 weeks
guidelines, ER and/or PR+ tumors are referred to as HR+. Triptorelin: 3.75 mg IM every 4 weeks.
• The magnitude of risk reduction from adjuvant endocrine therapy is dependent on: • Radiation therapy
Level of ER expression: Low ER+ expression is less likely to benefit from • Bilateral oophorectomy
endocrine therapy. Initiation of OFS
Recurrence score (RS) on gene expression assay test results: Patients with high • Prior to or with start of chemotherapy (preoperative or adjuvant)
RS will gain relatively less benefit from adjuvant endocrine alone compared to • If no chemotherapy planned, then OFS should be started alone for
those with low RS. at least 1–2 cycles or concurrently with tamoxifen until estradiol
Candidates for Ovarian Suppression + Endocrine Therapy level in postmenopausal range at which time an aromatase inhibitor
• Premenopausal patients could considered.
• Endocrine sensitive tumors with high enough recurrence risk where the additional Concurrently with RT or upon completion
absolute decrease in recurrence compared with tamoxifen alone is worth the Duration of OFS
additional toxicity (young age, high-grade tumor, lymph node involvement). b • 5 years of OFS is optimal based on SOFT and TEXT trials. The
8-year DFS was 85.4% with OFS + tamoxifen versus 80.2% with
tamoxifen alone. A minimum 2 years of OFS is encouraged. There
are no data on efficacy or safety to support prolonging of OFS > 5
c
years.
• Premenopausal patients wishing to continue adjuvant endocrine
therapy after OFS stopped should use tamoxifen.
a Definition of Menopause (BINV-O).
b A balanced discussion of the risks and benefits associated with ovarian suppression therapy is critical, including the potential side effects of premature menopause.
Aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen for 5 years plus ovarian suppression should be considered, based on SOFT and TEXT clinical trial outcomes, for premenopausal
patients at higher risk of recurrence (ie, young age, high-grade tumor, lymph node involvement).
c Baek SY, Noh WC, Ahn SH, et al. Adding ovarian suppression to tamoxifen for premenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer after
chemotherapy: An 8-year follow-up of the ASTRRA Trial. J Clin Oncol 2023;41:4864-4871.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-K
1 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
ADJUVANT ENDOCRINE ± CDK4/6 INHIBITOR THERAPY
Tamoxifenh for 5 y (category 1) Aromatase inhibitor for 5 yj (category 1)
Postmenopausala or
± ovarian suppression or
ablationb,f (category 1). Consider tamoxifenh for an additional 5 y to complete 10 y
Consider adjuvant abemaciclib or
Premenopausal in eligible patientsi Premenopausala,g
at diagnosisa,d,e,f,g
or No further endocrine therapy
Aromatase inhibitor for 5 yj
+ ovarian suppression or
Consider aromatase inhibitor
ablationb,f (category 1).
for an additional 3–5 yj
Consider adjuvant abemaciclib
or ribociclib in eligible patientsi
a Definition of Menopause (BINV-O).
b A balanced discussion of the risks and benefits associated with ovarian suppression
therapy is critical, including the potential side effects of premature menopause. Aromatase
inhibitor or tamoxifen for 5 years plus ovarian suppression should be considered, based
on SOFT and TEXT clinical trial outcomes, for premenopausal patients at higher risk of i In patients with HR-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer, 1) for those with high-risk
recurrence (ie, young age, high-grade tumor, lymph node involvement). breast cancer (ie, those with ≥4 positive lymph nodes (confirmed preoperatively and/
d Baseline assessment of bone density recommended for patients receiving an aromatase or at surgery), or 1–3 positive lymph nodes with either grade 3 disease or tumor size
inhibitor who are at risk of osteoporosis (eg, age >65, family history, chronic steroids). ≥5 cm (on pre-operative imaging and/or at surgery), 2 years of adjuvant abemaciclib
e The use of a bisphosphonate (oral/IV) or denosumab is acceptable to maintain or to can be considered in combination with endocrine therapy (category 1, preferred).
improve bone mineral density and reduce risk of fractures in postmenopausal (natural or VTE risk should be considered when combining abemaciclib with tamoxifen. 2) For
induced) patients receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy. those with any lymph node involvement (excluding microscopic nodal involvement),
f E vidence suggests that the magnitude of benefit from surgical or radiation ovarian ablation or if no nodal involvement either tumor size >5 cm, or if tumor size 2–5 cm, either
in premenopausal patients with HR-positive breast cancer is similar to that achieved with Grade 2 (and high genomic risk or Ki-67 ≥20%), or Grade 3, 3 years of ribociclib
CMF alone. with aromatase inhibitor may be considered (Category 1, preferred). Notably
g Safety data support administration of GnRH agonists before or with chemotherapy, adjuvant CDK4/6 inhibitors have been studied in patients at high risk who mostly
especially if there is a goal to enhance fertility preservation. They can also be initiated after received adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy; there are limited data in those who
chemotherapy in patients who remain premenopausal. did not receive chemotherapy. In patients eligible for adjuvant olaparib (see BINV-L)
h Some SSRIs like fluoxetine and paroxetine decrease the formation of endoxifen, 4-OH and abemaciclib or ribociclib, the benefit and optimal sequence is not known.
tamoxifen, and active metabolites of tamoxifen, and may impact its efficacy. Caution j The three selective aromatase inhibitors (ie, anastrozole, letrozole, exemestane)
is advised about coadministration of these drugs with tamoxifen. However, SNRIs have shown similar anti-tumor efficacy and toxicity profiles in randomized studies in
(citalopram and venlafaxine) appear to have minimal impact on tamoxifen metabolism. At the adjuvant and preoperative settings. The optimal duration of aromatase inhibitors
this time, based on current data the panel recommends against CYP2D6 gene testing for in adjuvant therapy is uncertain. Patients with lymph node involvement may benefit
patients being considered for tamoxifen therapy. from extended aromatase inhibitor duration (7.5–10 years total).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-K
2 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
ADJUVANT ENDOCRINE ± CDK4/6 INHIBITOR THERAPY
Aromatase inhibitorj for 5 y (category 1). Consider aromatase inhibitor for an additional 3–5 yj
Consider adjuvant abemaciclib or ribociclib
in eligible patientsi
or
Aromatase inhibitork for 2–3 y (category 1).
Tamoxifenh to complete 5 y of endocrine therapy (category 1)
Consider adjuvant abemaciclib or ribociclib
in eligible patientsi
Aromatase inhibitor to complete 5 yj of endocrine
or
therapy (category 1)
Tamoxifenh for 2–3 y or
Up to 5 y of an aromatase inhibitorj (category 2B)
Aromatase inhibitor for 5 yj (category 1)
Postmenopausal
Tamoxifenh for 4.5–6 y or
at diagnosisa,d,e,k
Consider tamoxifenh for an additional 5 y to complete 10 y
Patients with a contraindication to aromatase Tamoxifenh for 5 y (category 1)
inhibitors, who decline aromatase inhibitors, or or
who are intolerant to aromatase inhibitors Consider tamoxifenh for up to 10 y
i In patients with HR-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer, 1) for those with high-risk
breast cancer (ie, those with ≥4 positive lymph nodes (confirmed preoperatively and/
or at surgery), or 1–3 positive lymph nodes with either grade 3 disease or tumor size
≥5 cm (on pre-operative imaging and/or at surgery), 2 years of adjuvant abemaciclib
a Definition of Menopause (BINV-O). can be considered in combination with endocrine therapy (category 1, preferred).
b A balanced discussion of the risks and benefits associated with ovarian suppression VTE risk should be considered when combining abemaciclib with tamoxifen. 2) For
therapy is critical, including the potential side effects of premature menopause. Aromatase those with any lymph node involvement (excluding microscopic nodal involvement),
inhibitor or tamoxifen for 5 years plus ovarian suppression should be considered, based or if no nodal involvement either tumor size >5 cm, or if tumor size 2-5 cm, either
on SOFT and TEXT clinical trial outcomes, for premenopausal patients at higher risk of Grade 2 (and high genomic risk or Ki-67 ≥20%), or Grade 3, 3 years of ribociclib
recurrence (ie, young age, high-grade tumor, lymph node involvement). with aromatase inhibitor may be considered (Category 1, preferred). Notably
d Baseline assessment of bone density recommended for patients receiving an aromatase adjuvant CDK4/6 inhibitors have been studied in high-risk patients who mostly
inhibitor who are at risk of osteoporosis (eg, age >65, family history, chronic steroids). received adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy; there are limited data in those who
e The use of a bisphosphonate (oral/IV) or denosumab is acceptable to maintain or to did not receive chemotherapy. In patients eligible for adjuvant olaparib (see BINV-L)
improve bone mineral density and reduce risk of fractures in postmenopausal (natural or and abemaciclib or ribociclib, the benefit and optimal sequence is not known.
induced) patients receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy. j The three selective aromatase inhibitors (ie, anastrozole, letrozole, exemestane)
h Some SSRIs like fluoxetine and paroxetine decrease the formation of endoxifen, 4-OH have shown similar anti-tumor efficacy and toxicity profiles in randomized studies in
tamoxifen, and active metabolites of tamoxifen, and may impact its efficacy. Caution the adjuvant and preoperative settings. The optimal duration of aromatase inhibitors
is advised about coadministration of these drugs with tamoxifen. However, SNRIs in adjuvant therapy is uncertain. Patients with lymph node involvement may benefit
(citalopram and venlafaxine) appear to have minimal impact on tamoxifen metabolism. At from extended aromatase inhibitor duration (7.5–10 years total).
this time, based on current data the panel recommends against CYP2D6 gene testing for k If patient is not postmenopausal, sequential evaluation of hormonal status is
patients being considered for tamoxifen therapy. recommended to consider an alternative endocrine agent.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-K
3 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF PREOPERATIVE SYSTEMIC THERAPY
Known Benefits of Preoperative Systemic Therapy Cautions
• Facilitates breast conservation • Possible overtreatment with systemic therapy if clinical stage is
• Can render inoperable tumors operable overestimated
• Treatment response provides important prognostic information at an • Possible undertreatment locoregionally with radiotherapy if
individual patient level, particularly in patients with TNBC or HER2- clinical stage is underestimated
positive breast cancer • Possibility of disease progression during preoperative systemic
• Identifies patients with residual disease at higher risk for relapse to therapy
allow for the addition of supplemental adjuvant regimens, particularly
in patients with TNBC or HER2-positive breast cancer. Candidates for Preoperative Systemic Therapy
• Patients with inoperable breast cancer:
Opportunities IBC
• May allow SLNB alone if initial cN+ becomes cN0 after preoperative Bulky or matted cN2 axillary nodes
therapy cN3 nodal disease
• May provide an opportunity to modify systemic treatment if no cT4 tumors
preoperative therapy response or progression of disease • In select patients with operable breast cancer
• May allow for more limited radiation fields in patients with cN+ who Preoperative systemic therapy is preferred for:
become cN0/pN0 after preoperative therapy ◊ HER2-positive disease and TNBC, if ≥cT2 or ≥cN1
• Provides excellent research platform to test novel therapies and ◊ Large primary tumor relative to breast size in a patient who
predictive biomarkers desires breast conservation
• May allow time for genetic testing ◊ cN+ disease likely to become cN0 with preoperative systemic
• May allow time to plan breast reconstruction in patients electing therapy
mastectomy Preoperative systemic therapy can be considered for cT1c, cN0
• May allow time for delayed decision-making for definitive surgery HER2-positive disease and TNBC
• Patients in whom definitive surgery may be delayed.
Non-candidates for Preoperative Systemic Therapy
• Patients with extensive in situ disease when extent of invasive
carcinoma is not well-defined
• Patients with a poorly delineated extent of tumor
• Patients whose tumors are not palpable or clinically assessable
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-L
1 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF PREOPERATIVE SYSTEMIC THERAPY
• Pathology evaluation of surgical resection specimens following preoperative systemic therapy should include the standardized tissue
sampling and reporting elements of the Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) (category 2B).a
• Randomized trials of chemotherapy demonstrate similar long-term outcomes when patients are given the same treatment preoperatively
compared with postoperatively.b
• Pathologic complete response (pCR) to preoperative systemic therapy is associated with an extremely favorable disease-free and overall
survival (OS), particularly in situations in which all treatment is given preoperatively. The correlation between pathologic response and long-
term outcome is strongest for TNBC, somewhat less so for HER2-positive disease, and least for ER-positive disease.c,d
• A number of chemotherapy regimens have activity in the preoperative setting. In general, those chemotherapy regimens recommended in
the adjuvant setting may be considered in the preoperative setting. See Preoperative/Adjuvant Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
• Preoperative endocrine therapy alone may be considered for patients with ER-positive disease based on comorbidities or low-risk luminal
biology based on clinical characteristics and/or genomic signatures (until desired effect is achieved). Data shows that optimal duration for
response if achieved between 4–6 months.e
• Patients with HER-2 positive, ≥cT2 and/or cN+ should be considered for HER2-directed therapy preoperatively. See Preoperative/Adjuvant
Therapy Regimens (BINV-M).
• Some studies suggest an increased risk of locoregional recurrence following use of preoperative chemotherapy.f These trials delivered
chemotherapy regimens that are no longer standard, did not include targeted therapies, did not use modern imaging techniques, and/or
used non-standard locoregional management. Care should be taken to follow the procedures outlined in BINV-12 and BINV-14 to assure
appropriate locoregional management. Not all patients are appropriate candidates for preoperative systemic therapy. Accurate clinical
staging at baseline prior to initiation of preoperative systemic therapy is critical. See Potentially Operable Disease: Breast and Axillary
Evaluation Prior to Preoperative Systemic Therapy (BINV-12).
• Tumor response should be routinely assessed by clinical exam and imaging studies (see footnote uu on BINV-13) during delivery of
preoperative therapy. It is preferred that the standard regimen is completed prior to surgery. If all intended treatment is not completed prior
to surgery, the remainder may be given in the adjuvant setting. Patients with operable breast cancer experiencing progression of disease
during preoperative systemic therapy may be given an alternate systemic regimen or proceed to surgery if deemed resectable. Locoregional
therapy principles should be applied in the same manner as in patients treated with adjuvant systemic therapy.
d Cortazar P, Zhang L, Untch M, et al. Pathological complete response and long-
term clinical benefit in breast cancer: the CTNeoBC pooled analysis. Lancet
2014;384:164-172.
a Yau C, Osdoit M, van der Noorda M, et al. Residual cancer burden after e Hunt KK, Suman VJ, Wingate HF, et al. Local-regional recurrence after
neoadjuvant chemotherapy and long-term survival outcomes in breast cancer: a neoadjuvant endocrine therapy: Data from ACOSOG Z1031 (Alliance), a
multicentre pooled analysis of 5161 patients. Lancet Oncol 2022;23:149-160. Randomized Phase 2 neoadjuvant comparison between letrozole, anastrozole,
b Rastogi P, Anderson SJ, Bear HD, et al. Preoperative chemotherapy: Updates of and exemestane for postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive
National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project Protocols B-18 and B-27. J clinical stage 2 or 3 breast cancer. Ann Surg Oncol 2023;30:2111-2118.
Clin Oncol 2008;26:778-785. f Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group (EBTCG). Long-term
c von Minckwitz G, Untch M, Blohmer JU, et al. Definition and impact of pathologic outcomes for neoadjuvant versus adjuvant chemotherapy in early breast cancer:
complete response on prognosis after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in various metaanalysis of individual patient data from ten randomised trials. Lancet Oncol
intrinsic breast cancer subtypes. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:1796-1804. 2018;19:27-39.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-L
2 OF 2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY REGIMENS
Considerations for Those Receiving Preoperative/Adjuvant Systemic Therapy
General Considerations:
• An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines.
• Screen for and manage immunotherapy-related toxicities and endocrine dysfunctions (eg, hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency) in patients
treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors, see NCCN Guidelines for Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities.
• Regular cardiac monitoring for patients on anthracyclines or HER2-targeted therapys, see NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship: Cardiovascular
Disease Risk Assessment.
For Those Receiving Preoperative/Adjuvant Chemotherapy:
• Patients at a higher risk of taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy (TIPN) (eg, African descent, diabetes) may consider docetaxel as the
preferred taxane based on data supporting less TIPN and less dose reductions (Schneider BP, Zhao F, Ballinger TJ, et al. ECOG-ACRIN
EAZ171: prospective validation trial of germline predictors of taxane-induced peripheral neuropathy in Black women with early-stage breast
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2024;42:2899-2907).
• Consider cryotherapy of hands and feet to decrease the risk of peripheral neuropathy when receiving taxane therapies.
• Consider scalp cooling to reduce incidence of chemotherapy-induced alopecia for patients receiving neoadjuvant/adjuvant chemotherapy.
Results may be less effective with anthracycline-containing regimens.
• Alternative taxanes (ie, docetaxel, paclitaxel, albumin-bound paclitaxel) may be substituted for select patients due to medical necessity (ie,
hypersensitivity reaction). If substituted for weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel, then the weekly dose of albumin-bound paclitaxel should not
exceed 125 mg/m2.
• Sequence of therapies in the adjuvant setting:
Chemotherapy and endocrine therapy should be given sequentially, with endocrine therapy given after chemotherapy.
Adjuvant olaparib can be given concurrently with endocrine therapy.
For sequencing of RT with systemic therapy, see BINV-I (2).
For those receiving HER2-targeted therapy:
Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk subcutaneous injection may be substituted for trastuzumab IV; however, dosing and administration
instruction differ. Do not substitute trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf subcutaneous injection may be substituted for IV pertuzumab and trastuzumab;
however, the dosing and administration instruction may differ.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
1 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPYa,b
The regimens listed in the table are all category 1 (except where indicated) when used in the adjuvant setting. See BINV-M, 1 for
Considerations for Those Receiving Preoperative/Adjuvant Systemic Therapy.
HR-Positive, HER2-Negative
Patients with HR-positive disease are recommended to receive adjuvant endocrine therapy ± CDK4/6 inhibitor therapy (see BINV-K).
Preferred Regimens:
Preoperative or adjuvant setting:
• Dose-dense AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) followed or preceded by paclitaxel every 2 weeksc
• Dose-dense AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) followed or preceded by weekly paclitaxelc
• TC (docetaxel and cyclophosphamide)
Adjuvant setting only:
• If germline BRCA1/2 mutationsd: Olaparib
Useful in Certain Circumstances: Other Recommended Regimens:
Preoperative or adjuvant setting: Preoperative or adjuvant setting:
• Dose-dense AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) • AC followed by docetaxel every 3 weeksc
• AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) every 3 weeks (category 2B) • EC (epirubicin/cyclophosphamide)
• CMF (cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil) • TAC (docetaxel/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide)
• AC followed by weekly paclitaxelc
a Alternative taxanes (ie, docetaxel, paclitaxel, albumin-bound paclitaxel) may be substituted for select patients due to medical necessity (ie, hypersensitivity reaction). If
substituted for weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel, then the weekly dose of albumin-bound paclitaxel should not exceed 125 mg/m2.
b Principles of Preoperative Systemic Therapy (BINV-L).
c It is acceptable to change the administration sequence to taxane followed by AC.
d Patients in the OlympiA trial did not receive capecitabine; thus, there are no data on sequencing or to guide selection of one agent over the other. In patients eligible for
both adjuvant olaparib and abemaciclib, the optimal sequence is not known. See BINV-K, 2.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
2 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPYa,b
The regimens listed in the table are all category 1 (except where indicated) when used in the adjuvant setting. See BINV-M, 1 for
Considerations for Those Receiving Preoperative/Adjuvant Systemic Therapy.
HR-Negative, HER2-Negative
Preferred Regimens:
Stage 1
Preoperative or adjuvant setting:
• Dose-dense AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) followed or preceded by paclitaxel every 2 weeksc,e
• Dose-dense AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) followed or preceded by weekly paclitaxelc,e
• TC (docetaxel and cyclophosphamide)e
Stage II–III
Preoperative followed by adjuvant:
• Preoperative pembrolizumab + carboplatin + paclitaxel, followed by preoperative pembrolizumab + cyclophosphamide + doxorubicin or
epirubicin, followed by adjuvant pembrolizumab (category 1)
Stages I–III
Adjuvant setting only:
• If residual disease after preoperative therapy with taxane-, alkylator-, and anthracycline-based chemotherapyd,e: Capecitabine
• Germline BRCA1/2 mutationsd: Olaparib
Useful in Certain Circumstances: Other Recommended Regimens:
Preoperative only: Preoperative or adjuvant setting:
• Docetaxel/carboplatin/pembrolizumab • AC followed by docetaxel every 3 weeksc
Preoperative or adjuvant: • EC (epirubicin/cyclophosphamide)
• Dose-dense AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) • TAC (docetaxel/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide)
• AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) every 3 weeks (category 2B) • Paclitaxel + carboplatin (various schedules) (category 2A)
• CMF (cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil) • Docetaxel + carboplatin1 (category 2A)
• AC followed by weekly paclitaxelc • Regimens listed as “Preferred” for stage I, may be considered
• AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide) followed or preceded by for patients with Stage II–III disease who are not eligible for
carboplatin + taxane (paclitaxel or docetaxel)c pembrolizumab.
Maintenance therapy after adjuvant chemotherapy:
• Capecitabine
a Alternative taxanes (ie, docetaxel, paclitaxel, albumin-bound paclitaxel) may be substituted for select patients due to medical necessity (ie, hypersensitivity reaction). If
substituted for weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel, then the weekly dose of albumin-bound paclitaxel should not exceed 125 mg/m2.
b Principles of Preoperative Systemic Therapy (BINV-L).
c It is acceptable to change the administration sequence to taxane followed by AC.
d Patients in the OlympiA trial did not receive capecitabine; thus, there are no data on sequencing or to guide selection of one agent over the other. In patients eligible for
both adjuvant olaparib and abemaciclib, the optimal sequence is not known. See BINV-K, 2.
e For patients with stage II–III disease who are not eligible for pembrolizumab, the regimens listed as "preferred" for stage 1 could be considered as other recommended
options.
References on BINV-M 10 of 10
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
3 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPYa
See BINV-M, 1 for Considerations for Those Receiving Preoperative/Adjuvant Systemic Therapy.
HR-positive or negative and HER2-Positive
Patients with HR-positive disease are recommended to receive adjuvant endocrine therapy ± CDK4/6 inhibitor therapy (see BINV-K).
Preferred Regimens:
Preoperative or adjuvant setting:
• Paclitaxel + trastuzumabf
• TCH (docetaxel/carboplatin/trastuzumab)
• TCHP (docetaxel/carboplatin/trastuzumab/pertuzumab)
Adjuvant setting only:
• If no residual disease after preoperative therapy or no preoperative therapy: Complete up to 1 year of HER2-targeted therapy with
trastuzumabh,i (category 1) ± pertuzumab. If node positive at initial staging, trastuzumab + pertuzumab (category 1)g
• If residual disease after preoperative therapy: Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (category 1) alone. If ado-trastuzumab emtansine discontinued
for toxicity, then trastuzumab (category 1) ± pertuzumab to complete 1 year of therapy.h If node positive at initial staging, trastuzumab +
pertuzumab (category 1)g
Useful in Certain Circumstances: Other Recommended Regimens:
Preoperative or adjuvant setting: Preoperative or adjuvant setting:
• Docetaxel + cyclophosphamide + trastuzumab • AC followed by docetaxelc + trastuzumabh,i (doxorubicin/
• AC followed by Tc + trastuzumabh,i (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel + trastuzumab)
followed by paclitaxel plus trastuzumab, various schedules) • AC followed by docetaxelc + trastuzumab + pertuzumabh,i
• AC followed by Tc + trastuzumab + pertuzumabh,i (doxorubicin/ (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel +
cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel plus trastuzumab plus trastuzumab + pertuzumab)
pertuzumab, various schedules) • Paclitaxel/carboplatin + trastuzumab + pertuzumabi
• Paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab
Adjuvant setting only:
• Neratinibi
• Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (TDM-1)
g Updated results from the adjuvant APHINITY trial in HER2-positive early breast cancer,
a Alternative taxanes (ie, docetaxel, paclitaxel, albumin-bound paclitaxel) with a median follow-up of 8.4 years, have confirmed the benefit of adding pertuzumab
may be substituted for select patients due to medical necessity (ie, to trastuzumab plus chemotherapy in preventing recurrences in those with node positive
hypersensitivity reaction). If substituted for weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel, disease.
then the weekly dose of albumin-bound paclitaxel should not exceed 125 h Trastuzumab given in combination with an anthracycline is associated with significant
mg/m2. cardiac toxicity. Concurrent use of trastuzumab and pertuzumab with an anthracycline
c It is acceptable to change the administration sequence to taxane (with or should be avoided.
without HER2-targeted therapy) followed by AC. i Consider extended adjuvant neratinib following adjuvant trastuzumab-containing therapy for
f P aclitaxel + trastuzumab may be considered for patients with low-risk patients with HR-positive, HER2-positive disease with a perceived high risk of recurrence.
T1,N0,M0, HER2-positive disease, particularly those not eligible for other The benefit or toxicities associated with extended neratinib in patients who have received
standard adjuvant regimens due to comorbidities. pertuzumab or ado-trastuzumab emtansine is unknown.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
4 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY REGIMENS
HER2-Negative
• Dose-dense AC followed by paclitaxel2 • Preoperative pembrolizumab + chemotherapy followed by adjuvant
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 pembrolizumab4,j,k
Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1 Preoperative:
◊ Cycled every 14 days for 4 cycles j ◊ Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV or 2mg/kg day 1
◊ Followed by: ◊ Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV days 1, 8, 15
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 by 3 h IV infusion day 1 ◊ Carboplatin AUC 5 IV day 1
◊ Cycled every 14 days for 4 cycles j Or
• Dose-dense AC followed by weekly paclitaxel2 ◊ Carboplatin AUC 1.5 IV days 1, 8, 15
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 – Cycled every 21 days x 4 cycles (cycles 1–4)
Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1 Followed by:
◊ Cycled every 14 days for 4 cycles j ◊ Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV or 2mg/kg day 1
◊ Followed by: ◊ Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 or Epirubicin 90 mg/m2 IV day 1
Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 by 1 h IV infusion weekly for 12 weeks ◊ Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1
• TC3 – Cycled every 21 days x 4 cycles (cycles 5–8)
Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV day 1 Followed by:
Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1 Adjuvant pembrolizumab 200 mg IV or 2mg/kg day 1
◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4–6 cycles j ◊ Cycled every 21 days x 9 cycles
• Ribociclib (in combination with an aromatase inhibitor) • Capecitabine5
400 mg PO once daily 1000–1250 mg/m2 PO twice daily on days 1–14
21 days on/7 days off for 3 years ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 6–8 cycles
• Olaparib6
300 mg PO twice daily
Cycled every 28 days for 1 year
References on BINV-M 10 of 10
j All cycles are with myeloid growth factor support. See NCCN Guidelines for Hematopoietic Growth Factors.
k Pembrolizumab 400 mg or 4mg/kg every 42 days may be given instead of pembrolizumab 200 mg every 21 days in this regimen.
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose and schedule and initiation of
supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer
agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
5 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY REGIMENS
HER2-Negative
• AC followed by docetaxel every 3 weeks7 • EC chemotherapy8 • Paclitaxel + carboplatin
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m² IV on day 1 Epirubicin 100 mg/m² IV day 1 Weekly paclitaxel + carboplatin1,10 (preoperative
Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m² IV day 1 Cyclophosphamide 830 mg/m² IV day 1 setting only)
◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 8 cycles ◊ Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 days 1, 8, and 15
◊ Followed by: ◊ Carboplatin AUC 5 or 6 day 1;
D ◊ o C ce y t c a le xe d l e 1 v 0 e 0 r y m 2 g 1 /m d ² a y IV s o fo n r d 4 a c y y 1 cles •

TA
D
C
o c
c
e
h
ta
e
x
m
e
o
l 7
th
5
e
m
ra
g
p
/m
y9
² IV day 1
We – e k C ly y c p le a d c l e it v a e x r e y l 2 + 1 w d e a e y k s l x y 4 c a c r y b c o le p s latin11,12
◊ Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 days 1, 8, and 15
Doxorubicin 50 mg/m² IV day 1
◊ Carboplatin AUC 1.5–2 days 1, 8, and 15
Cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m² IV day 1
◊ Cycled every 21 days for 6 cyclesl – Cycled every 28 days x 6 cycles
• Docetaxel + carboplatin (4–6 cycles)1,13,14,j
Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 day 1
Carboplatin AUC 6 day 1
◊ Cycled every 21 days x 4–6 cycles
• Dose-dense AC2 • CMF chemotherapy16,17 • AC followed by weekly paclitaxel18
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m² IV day 1 Cyclophosphamide 100 mg/m² PO days 1–14 Doxorubicin 60 mg/m² IV day 1
C ◊ y C cl y o c p l h e o d s e p v h e a r m y i 1 d 4 e d 6 a 0 y 0 s m fo g r / m 4 ² c y IV c le d s a j y 1   M 5- e fl t u h o o r t o re u x ra a c te il 6 4 0 0 0 m m g g /m /m ² ² I V IV d d a a y y s s 1 1 & & 8 8 C ◊ y C cl y o c p l h e o d s e p v h e a r m y i 2 d 1 e d 6 a 0 y 0 s m fo g r / m 4 ² c y IV c le d s ay 1
◊ Cycled every 28 days for 6 cycles ◊ Followed by
• AC15 Paclitaxel 80 mg/m² by 1 h IV infusion weekly for 12 weeks
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m² IV on day 1 Or
C ◊ y C cl y o c p l h e o d s e p v h e a r m y i 2 d 1 e d 6 a 0 y 0 s m fo g r / m 4 ² c y IV c le d s ay 1   C M y e c th lo o p t h re o x s a p t h e a 4 m 0 i d m e g 6 / 0 m 0 2 m IV g d /m ay 2 I 1 V day 1 •  Ca 6 p 50 e c m it g a / b m in 2 e P O (m t a w i i n c t e e n da a i n ly c e o n t h d e a r y a s p 1 y – )1 2 9 8
5-fluorouracil 600 mg/m2 IV day 1
Cycled every 28 days for 1 year
◊ Cycled every 21 days for 8 cycles
• AC followed or preceded by carboplatin +
taxane (paclitaxel or docetaxel) 34 • Docetaxel + Carboplatin + Pembrolizumabj,k,20
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV day 1
Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1 Carboplatin AUC 6 IV day 1
◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles
Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV or 2 mg/kg day 1
◊ Followed by
Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV on Days 1, 8, 15 ◊ Cycled every 21 days x 6 cycles
Carboplatin AUC 5 IV on Day 1
◊ Cycled every 21 days x 4 cycles
Or
Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV day 1
Carboplatin AUC 5 IV on Day 1
◊ Cycled every 21 days x 4 cycles
j All cycles are with myeloid growth factor support. See NCCN Guidelines for Hematopoietic Growth Factors. References on BINV-M 10 of 10
k Pembrolizumab 400 mg or 4mg/kg every 42 days may be given instead of pembrolizumab 200 mg every 21 days in this regimen.
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose and schedule and initiation of
supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer
agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
6 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY REGIMENS
HER2-Positivel,m
Paclitaxel + trastuzumab21 TCH22 TCH + pertuzumab23 TDM-1
Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV weekly for 12 Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV day 1 Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV day 1 3.6 mg/kg day 1
weeks Carboplatin AUC 6 IV day 1 Carboplatin AUC 6 IV day 1 ◊ Cycled every 21 days for
◊ With: ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 6 cycles ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 6 cycles 14 cycles
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV with first ◊ With: With:
dose of paclitaxel Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV week 1 Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1
◊ Followed by: ◊ Followed by: Pertuzumab 840 mg IV day 1
Trastuzumab 2 mg/kg IV weekly to Trastuzumab 2 mg/kg IV for 17 weeks ◊ Followed by:
complete 1 year of treatment. As an ◊ Followed by: Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV on day 1
alternative, trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV Pertuzumab 420 mg IV day 1
every 21 days may be used following ◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete ◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete 1 year
the completion of paclitaxel, 1 year of therapyn of therapyn
and given to complete 1 year of OR
trastuzumab treatment. Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV week 1
◊ Followed by:
Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV
◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete
1 year of therapyn
m Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous
use may be substituted anywhere that the combination of intravenous pertuzumab
and intravenous trastuzumab are given as part of systemic therapy. Pertuzumab,
trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous use has different
dosing and administration instructions compared to the intravenous products.
l Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk injection for subcutaneous use may be n Evaluate left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) prior to and during treatment.
substituted for trastuzumab. It has different dosage and administration instructions The optimal frequency of LVEF assessment during adjuvant trastuzumab therapy
compared to intravenous trastuzumab. Do not substitute trastuzumab and is not known. The FDA label recommends LVEF measurements prior to initiation
hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. of trastuzumab and every 3 months during therapy.
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose and schedule and initiation of
supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer
agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
References on BINV-M 10 of 10
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
7 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY REGIMENS
HER2-Positivel,m
AC followed by T + trastuzumab24 Dose-dense AC followed by AC or Dose-Dense AC followed by Docetaxel/cyclophosphamide +
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 paclitaxel + trastuzumab25 T + trastuzumab + pertuzumab26 trastuzumab27
Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV day 1
day 1 Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV
◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 day 1 day 1 day 1
cycles. ◊ Cycled every 14 days for 4 cycles ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles
◊ Followed by: ◊ Followed by: or ◊ With:
Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 by 1 h IV weekly Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 by 3 h IV For dose-dense: Cycle every 14 Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV week 1
for 12 weeks infusion day 1 days for 4 cycles ◊ Followed by
◊ With: ◊ Cycled every 14 days for 4 cyclesj ◊ Followed by: Trastuzumab 2 mg/kg IV weekly for
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV with first ◊ With: Pertuzumab 840 mg IV day 1 11 weeks
dose of paclitaxel Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV with first followed by 420 mg IV ◊ Followed by
◊ Followed by: dose of paclitaxel Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV
Trastuzumab 2 mg/kg IV weekly ◊ Followed by: followed by 6 mg/kg IV ◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete
to complete 1 year of treatment. Trastuzumab 2 mg/kg IV weekly to Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV days 1, 8, 1 year of therapy of trastuzumab
As an alternative, trastuzumab 6 complete 1 year of treatment. As an and 15 therapyn
mg/kg IV every 21 days may be alternative, trastuzumab ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles OR
used following the completion of 6 mg/kg IV every 21 days may be ◊ Followed by: Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV week 1
paclitaxel, and given to complete 1 used following the completion of Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV day 1 ◊ Followed by:
year of trastuzumab treatment.n paclitaxel, and given to complete 1 Pertuzumab 420 mg IV day 1 Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV every
year of trastuzumab treatment.n ◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete 21 days to complete 1 year of
1 year of therapyn trastuzumab therapyn
m Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous
use may be substituted anywhere that the combination of intravenous pertuzumab
and intravenous trastuzumab are given as part of systemic therapy. Pertuzumab,
j All cycles are with myeloid growth factor support. See NCCN Guidelines for trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous use has different
Hematopoietic Growth Factors. dosing and administration instructions compared to the intravenous products.
l Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk injection for subcutaneous use may n Evaluate LVEF prior to and during treatment. The optimal frequency of LVEF
be substituted for trastuzumab. It has different dosage and administration assessment during adjuvant trastuzumab therapy is not known. The FDA label
instructions compared to intravenous trastuzumab. Do not substitute recommends LVEF measurements prior to initiation of trastuzumab and every 3
trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-trastuzumab emtansine. months during therapy.
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose and schedule and initiation of
supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer
agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
References on BINV-M 10 of 10
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
8 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY REGIMENS
HER2-Positivel,m
AC followed by docetaxel + trastuzumab21,28 AC followed by docetaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab30
Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1 Paclitaxel/carboplatin + trastuzumab Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1
Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1 + pertuzumab 29 Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day 1
◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV day 1 and 8 ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles
◊ Followed by: Carboplatin AUC 6 IV day 1 ◊ Followed by:
Docetaxel 100 mg/m2 IV day 1 ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 9 cycles Pertuzumab 840 mg IV day 1 followed by 420 mg IV
◊ ◊ C W y it c h le : d every 21 days for 4 cycles   T P r e a r s tu tu z z u u m m a a b b 8 8 4 0 m m g/ g k g IV IV d a d y a y 1 1 Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg IV
Trastuzumab ◊ Followed by: Docetaxel 75–100 mg/m2 IV day 1
◊ 4 mg/kg IV week 1; Followed by: Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV day 1 ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 4 cycles
◊ 2 mg/kg IV weekly for 11 weeks; Followed by: Pertuzumab 420 mg IV day 1 ◊ Followed by:
◊ 6 mg/kg IV ◊ Cycled every 21 days to Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV
◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete 1 year complete 1 year of therapy Pertuzumab 420 mg IV day 1
of trastuzumab therapyn ◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete 1 year of therapyn
Neratinib31 Paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab32 Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1)33
120 mg PO daily on days 1–7; Followed by: Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV day 1 3.6 mg/kg IV day 1
160 mg PO daily on days 8–14; Followed by: ◊ Cycled every 7 days x 12 cycles ◊ Cycled every 21 days for 17 cycles
240 mg PO daily on days 15–28 Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg IV
◊ Cycled every 28 days x 1 cycle Pertuzumab 840 mg IV day 1 followed by 420 mg IV
◊ Followed by: ◊ Cycled every 21 days x 4 cycles
240 mg PO daily on days 1–28 ◊ Followed by:
◊ Cycled every 28 days x 12 cycles beginning with cycle 2 Trastuzumab 6 mg/kg IV;
Pertuzumab 420 mg IV day 1;
◊ Cycled every 21 days to complete 1 year of therapyn
l Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk injection for subcutaneous use may be substituted for trastuzumab. It has different dosage and administration instructions
compared to intravenous trastuzumab. Do not substitute trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-trastuzumab emtansine.
m Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous use may be substituted anywhere that the combination of intravenous pertuzumab and
intravenous trastuzumab are given as part of systemic therapy. Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous use has different dosing
and administration instructions compared to the intravenous products.
n Evaluate LVEF prior to and during treatment. The optimal frequency of LVEF assessment during adjuvant trastuzumab therapy is not known. The FDA label
recommends LVEF measurements prior to initiation of trastuzumab and every 3 months during therapy.
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose and schedule and initiation of
supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer
agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
References on BINV-M 10 of 10
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
9 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PREOPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY REGIMENS - REFERENCES
1 Gupta S, Nair NS, Hawaldar RW, et al. Addition of platinum to sequential taxane-anthracycline 17 Jakesz R, Hausmaninger H, Kubista E, et al. Austrian Breast and Colorectal Cancer Study Group Trial
neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with triple-negative breast cancer: A phase III randomized 5. Randomized adjuvant trial of tamoxifen and goserelin versus cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and
controlled trial. Presented at: 2022 San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium; December 6-10, fluorouracil: evidence for the superiority of treatment with endocrine blockade in premenopausal patients with
2022; San Antonio, TX. Abstract GS5-01. hormone-responsive breast cancer--Austrian Breast and Colorectal Cancer Study Group Trial 5. J Clin Oncol
2 Citron ML, Berry DA, Cirrincione C, et al. Randomized trial of dose-dense versus conventionally 2002;20:4621-4627.
scheduled and sequential versus concurrent combination chemotherapy as postoperative adjuvant 18 Sparano JA, Wang M, Martino S, et al. Weekly paclitaxel in adjuvant treatment of breast cancer. N Engl J
treatment of node-positive primary breast cancer: First report of intergroup trial C9741/cancer and Med 2008;258:1663-1671.
leukemia group B trial 9741. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:1431-1439. 19 Wang X, Wang SS, Huang H, et al. Effect of capecitabine maintenance therapy using lower dosage and
3 Jones S, Holmes F, O’Shaughnessey J, et al. Docetaxel with cyclophosphamide is associated higher frequency vs observation on disease-free survival among patients with early-stage triple-negative
with an overall survival benefit compared with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide: 7-year breast cancer who had received standard treatment: The SYSUCC-001 randomized clinical trial. JAMA
follow-up of US Oncology Research trial 9735. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1177-1183; Nitz U, Gluz 2021;325:50-58.
O, Clemens M, et al. West German Study PlanB Trial: Adjuvant four cycles of epirubicin and 20 Sharma P, Stecklein SR, Yoder R, et al. Clinical and biomarker findings of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab
cyclophosphamide plus docetaxel versus six cycles of docetaxel and cyclophosphamide in HER2- and carboplatin plus docetaxel in triple-negative breast cancer: NeoPACT phase 2 clinical trial. JAMA Oncol
negative early breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:799-808. 2024;10:227-235.
4 Schmid P, Cortes J, Pusztai L, et al. Pembrolizumab for early triple-negative breast cancer. N 21 Tolaney S, Barry W, Dang C, et al. Adjuvant paclitaxel and trastuzumab for node-negative HER2-positive
Engl J Med, 2020;382:810-821. breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2015;372:134-141.
5 Masuda N, Lee SJ, Ohtani S, et al. Adjuvant capecitabine for breast cancer after preoperative 22 Slamon D, Eiermann W, Robert N, et al. Adjuvant trastuzumab in HER2-positive breast cancer. N Engl J
chemotherapy. N Engl J Med 2017;376:2147-2159. Med 2011;365:1273-1283.
6 Tutt ANJ, Garber JE, Kaufman B, et al. Adjuvant Olaparib for Patients with BRCA1- or BRCA2- 23 Schneeweiss A, Chia S, Hickish T, et al. Pertuzumab plus trastuzumab in combination with standard
Mutated Breast Cancer. N Engl J Med 2021;384:2394-2405. neoadjuvant anthracycline-containing and anthracycline-free chemotherapy regimens in patients with
7 von Minckwitz G1, Raab G, Caputo A, et al. Doxorubicin with cyclophosphamide followed by HER2-positive early breast cancer: a randomized phase II cardiac safety study (TRYPHAENA). Ann Oncol
docetaxel every 21 days compared with doxorubicin and docetaxel every 14 days as preoperative 2013;24:2278-2284.
treatment in operable breast cancer: the GEPARDUO study of the German Breast Group. J Clin 24 Romond EH, Perez EZ, Bryant J, et al. Trastuzumab plus adjuvant chemotherapy for operable HER2
Oncol 2005;23:2676-2685. positive breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;353:1673-1684.
8 Piccart MJ, Di Leo A, Beauduin M, et al. Phase III trial comparing two dose levels of epirubicin 25 Dang C, Fornier M, Sugarman S, et al. The safety of dose-dense doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide
combined with cyclophosphamide with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil in node- followed by paclitaxel with trastuzumab in HER-2/neu over-expressed/amplified breast cancer. J Clin Oncol
positive breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:3103-3110. 2008;26:1216-1222.
9 Martin, Pienkowski T, Mackey J, et al. Adjuvant docetaxel for node-positive breast cancer. N Engl 26 Swain SM, Ewer MS, Viale G, et al. Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and standard anthracycline- and taxane-
J Med 2005;352:22. based chemotherapy for the neoadjuvant treatment of patients with HER2-positive localized breast cancer
10 Sharma P, Kimler BF, O'Dea A, et al. Randomized phase II trial of anthracycline-free and (BERENICE): a phase II, open-label, multicenter, multinational cardiac safety study. Ann Oncol 2018;29:646-
anthracycline-containing neoadjuvant carboplatin chemotherapy regimens in stage I-III triple- 653.
negative breast cancer (NeoSTOP). Clin Cancer Res 2021;27:975-982. 27 Jones SE, Collea R, Paul D, et al. Adjuvant docetaxel and cyclophosphamide plus trastuzumab in patients
11 Yu KD, Ye FG, He M, et al. Effect of adjuvant paclitaxel and carboplatin on survival in women with HER2-amplified early stage breast cancer: a single-group, open-label, phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol
with triple-negative breast cancer: A phase 3 randomized clinical trial. JAMA Oncol 2020;6:1390- 2013;14:1121-1128.
1396. 28 Joensuu H, Kellokumpu-Lehtinen PL, Bono P, et al. Adjuvant docetaxel or vinorelbine with or without
12 von Minckwitz G, Schneeweiss A, Loibl S, et al. Neoadjuvant carboplatin in patients with triple- trastuzumab for breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2006;354:809-820.
negative and HER2-positive early breast cancer (GeparSixto; GBG 66): a randomised phase 2 29 van Ramshorst MS, van der Voort A, van Werkhoven ED, et al. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with or without
trial. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:747-756. anthracyclines in the presence of dual HER2 blockade for HER2-positive breast cancer (TRAIN-2): a
13 Sharma P, Lopez-Tarruella S, Garcia-Saenz J, et al. Efficacy of neoadjuvant carboplatin plus multicentre, open-label, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2018;19:1630-1640.
docetaxel in triple-negative breast cancer: Combined analysis of two cohorts. Clin Cancer Res 30 Gianni L, Pienkowski T, Im YH, et al. Efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant pertuzumab and trastuzumab
2017;23:649-657. in women with locally advanced, inflammatory, or early HER2-positive breast cancer (NeoSphere): a
14 Zhang L, Wu ZY, Li J, et al. Neoadjuvant docetaxel plus carboplatin versus epirubicin plus randomised multicentre, open-label, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:25-32.
cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel in triple-negative, early-stage breast cancer (NeoCART): 31 Chan A, Delaloge S, Holmes FA, et al. Neratinib after trastuzumab-based adjuvant therapy in patients with
Results from a multicenter, randomized controlled, open-label phase II trial. Int J Cancer HER2-positive breast cancer (ExteNET): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase
2022;150:654-662. 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:367-377.
15 Fisher B, Brown AM, Dimitrov NV, et al. Two months of doxorubicin-cyclophosphamide with and 32 Nitz UA, Gluz O, Christgen M, et al. De-escalation strategies in HER2-positive early breast cancer (EBC):
without interval reinduction therapy compared with 6 months of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, final analysis of the WSG-ADAPT HER2+/HR- phase II trial: efficacy, safety, and predictive markers for
and fluorouracil in positive-node breast cancer patients with tamoxifen-nonresponsive tumors: 12 weeks of neoadjuvant dual blockade with trastuzumab and pertuzumab ± weekly paclitaxel. Ann Oncol
results from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project B-15. J Clin Oncol 2017;28:2768-2772.
1990;8:1483-1496. 33 Tolaney SM, Tayob N, Dang C, et al. Adjuvant trastuzumab emtansine versus paclitaxel in combination
16 Goldhirsch A, Colleoni M, Coates AS, et al: Adding adjuvant CMF chemotherapy to either with trastuzumab for stage I HER2-positive breast cancer (ATEMPT): A randomized clinical trial. J Clin Oncol
radiotherapy or tamoxifen: are all CMFs alike? The International Breast Cancer Study Group 2021;39:2375-2385.
(IBCSG). Ann Oncol 1998;9:489-493. 34 Sohn J, Kim GM, Jung KH, et al. A randomized, multicenter, open-label, phase III trial comparing
anthracyclines followed by taxane versus anthracyclines followed by taxane plus carboplatin as (neo)
adjuvant therapy in patients with early triple-negative breast cancer: Korean Cancer Study Group BR 15-1
PEARLY trial. J Clin Oncol 2024; 42: LBA502.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-M
10 OF 10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
GENE EXPRESSION ASSAYS FOR CONSIDERATION OF ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPYa,b
NCCN Category Recurrence Risk
NCCN Category
Assay Predictive Prognostic of Evidence and and
of Preference
Consensus Treatment Implications
21-gene (Oncotype Dx)
Yes Yes Preferred 1 BINV-N (2)
(for pN0)
Postmenopausal:
1
Preferred
21-gene (Oncotype Dx)
Yes BINV-N (2)
for pN1 (1–3 positive nodes)c Yes
Premenopausal:
2A
Other
70-gene (MammaPrint)
Not determined Yes Other 1 BINV-N (3)
for pN0 and pN1 (1–3 positive nodes)
50-gene (Prosigna)
Not determined Yes Other 2A BINV-N (3)
for pN0 and pN1 (1–3 positive nodes)
12-gene (EndoPredict)
Not determined Yes Other 2A BINV-N (3)
for pN0 and pN1 (1–3 positive nodes)
Predictive
of benefit of
Breast Cancer Index (BCI) Yes Other 2A BINV-N (4)
extended adjuvant
endocrine therapy
a Gene expression assays provide prognostic and therapy-predictive information that complements T,N,M and biomarker information. Use of these assays is not required
for staging. The 21-gene assay (Oncotype Dx) is preferred by the NCCN Breast Cancer Panel for prognosis and prediction of chemotherapy benefit. Other prognostic
gene expression assays can provide prognostic information but the ability to predict chemotherapy benefit is unknown.
b Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
c In the overall study population of the RxPONDER trial, 10.3% had high-grade disease and 9.2% had 3 involved nodes.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-N
1 OF 5
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
GENE EXPRESSION ASSAYS FOR CONSIDERATION OF ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPYa,b
Assay Recurrence Risk Treatment Implications
21-gene Patients with T1b/c–2, pN0, HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors, with recurrence scores (RS) between
(Oncotype Dx) 0–10 have a risk of distant recurrence of <4% and those with RS 11–25 derived no benefit from the
(for <26 addition of chemotherapy to endocrine therapy in the prospective TAILORx study.1
postmenopausal Postmenopausal patients with pT1–3, pN1, HR-positive, HER2-negative, with RS <26 derived no benefit
from the addition of chemotherapy to endocrine therapy in the prospective RxPONDER study.2
patients with pN0
and pN1 [1–3 In postmenopausal patients with pT1–3, HR-positive, HER2-negative, and pN0 and pN1 (1–3 positive
positive nodes])c ≥26 nodes) tumors and an RS ≥26, the addition of chemotherapy to endocrine therapy is recommended.1,2
Premenopausal patients with T1b/c –2, pN0, HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors with RS <16 derived no
≤15 benefit from the addition of chemotherapy to endocrine therapy in the prospective TAILORx study.1
21-gene In premenopausal patients with RS between 16–25, a small benefit from the addition of chemotherapy
(Oncotype Dx) could not be ruled out, but it is unclear if the benefit was due to the ovarian suppression effect promoted by
(for premenopausal 16–25 chemotherapy in premenopausal patients.1,2 For this group, consider chemotherapy followed by endocrine
patients: pN0) therapy or alternatively, ovarian function suppression combined with either tamoxifen or an AI.
In premenopausal patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, and pN0 tumors and an RS ≥26, the addition
≥26
of chemotherapy to endocrine therapy is recommended.1
In premenopausal patients with pT1–3 and pN1 (1–3 positive nodes) tumors and an RS <26, the addition
21-gene (Oncotype of chemotherapy to endocrine therapy was associated with a lower rate of distant recurrence compared
<26 with endocrine monotherapy2 but it is unclear if the benefit was due to the ovarian suppression effects
Dx)
promoted by chemotherapy. For this group of patients, consider chemotherapy followed by endocrine
(for premenopausal
therapy or alternatively, ovarian function suppression combined with either tamoxifen or an AI.2
patients with 1–3
positive nodes)c In premenopausal patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, pT1–3 and pN1 (1–3 positive nodes) tumors
≥26 and an RS ≥26, the addition of chemotherapy to endocrine therapy is recommended.2
a Gene expression assays provide prognostic and therapy-predictive information that complements T,N,M and biomarker information. Use of these assays is not required
for staging. The 21-gene assay (Oncotype Dx) is preferred by the NCCN Breast Cancer Panel for prognosis and prediction of chemotherapy benefit. Other prognostic
gene expression assays can provide prognostic information but the ability to predict chemotherapy benefit is unknown.
b Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
c In the overall study population of the RxPONDER trial, 10.3% had high-grade disease and 9.2% had 3 involved nodes. References on
BINV-N 5 of 5
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-N
2 OF 5
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
GENE EXPRESSION ASSAYS FOR CONSIDERATION OF ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPYa,b
Assay Recurrence Risk Treatment Implications
Patients with high clinical risk and low genomic risk were randomly assigned to receive chemotherapy
(n = 749) or not (n = 748); this was the intention-to-treat population. The 8-year estimates for distant
High
metastasis-free survival in the intention-to-treat population were 92.0% (95% CI, 89.6–93.8) for
chemotherapy versus 89.4% (86.8–91.5) for no chemotherapy (HR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.48–0.92). An
exploratory analysis confined to the subset of patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative disease (1358
70-gene [90.7%] of 1497 randomly assigned patients, of whom 676 received chemotherapy and 682 did not) shows
(MammaPrint) different effects of chemotherapy administration on 8-year distant metastasis-free survival according to
(for pN0 and age: 93.6% (95% CI, 89.3–96.3) with chemotherapy versus 88.6% (83.5–92.3) without chemotherapy in
1–3 positive 464 patients aged ≤50 years (absolute difference 5.0 percentage points [SE, 2.8; 95% CI, −0.5 to 10.4])
nodes) Low d and 90.2% (86.8–92.7) versus 90.0% (86.6–92.6) in 894 females >50 years (absolute difference 0.2
percentage points [2.1, −4.0 to 4.4]). The 8-year distant metastasis-free survival in the exploratory analysis
by nodal status in these patients was 91.7% (95% CI, 88.1–94.3) with chemotherapy and 89.2% (85.2–
92.2) without chemotherapy in 699 patients who are node-negative (absolute difference 2.5 percentage
points [SE, 2.3; 95% CI, −2.1 to 7.2]) and 91.2% (87.2–94.0) versus 89.9% (85.8–92.8) for 658 patients with
1–3 positive nodes (absolute difference 1.3 percentage points [2.4, −3.5 to 6.1]).3
Node negative:
Low (0–40),
For patients with T1 and T2 HR-positive, HER2-negative, pN0 tumors, a risk of recurrence score in the low
50-gene Intermediate range, regardless of T size, places the tumor into the same prognostic category as T1a–T1b,N0,M0.4
(41–60), High
(Prosigna)
(61–100)
(for pN0 and
1–3 positive Node positive:
nodes) Low (0–40) In patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, pN+ tumors (1–3 positive lymph nodes) with low risk of
recurrence score, treated with endocrine therapy alone, the distant recurrence risk was less than 3.5% at
Node positive: 10 years and no distant recurrence was seen at 10 years in the TransATAC study in a similar group.5
High (41–100)
12-gene For patients with T1 and T2 HR-positive, HER2-negative, and pN0 tumors, a 12-gene low-risk score, regardless
(EndoPredict) Low (≤3.3) of T size, places the tumor into the same prognostic category as T1a–T1b,N0,M0.6
(pN0 and In ABCSG 6/8, patients in the low-risk group had risk of distant recurrence of 4% at 10 years and in the
1–3 positive TransATAC study, patients with 1–3 positive nodes in the low-risk group had a 5.6% risk of distant recurrence at
High (>3.3)
nodes) 10 years.6,7 The assay is prognostic in patients treated with endocrine and chemo-endocrine.7
a Gene expression assays provide prognostic and therapy-predictive information that complements T,N,M and biomarker information. Use of these assays is not required
for staging. The 21-gene assay (Oncotype Dx) is preferred by the NCCN Breast Cancer Panel for prognosis and prediction of chemotherapy benefit. Other prognostic
gene expression assays can provide prognostic information but the ability to predict chemotherapy benefit is unknown.
b Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
d Postmenopausal patients with UltraLow risk in the Stockholm Tamoxifen trial had a 20-year breast cancer specific survival of 97% with 2–5 years of Tamoxifen
(Esserman LJ, et al. JAMA Oncology 2017;3:1503-1510). Patients with an ultralow-risk in the MINDACT trial have shown 8-year breast cancer specific survival above
95.6%. (Lopes Cardozo JMN, et al. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:1335-1345). References on
BINV-N 5 of 5
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-N
3 OF 5
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
GENE EXPRESSION ASSAYS FOR CONSIDERATION OF EXTENDED ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPYa,b
Recurrence Risk/
Assay Treatment Implications
Predictive Result
• For patients with T1 and T2 HR-positive, HER2-negative, and pN0 tumors, a BCI (H/I) in the low-risk range
(0–5), regardless of T size, places the tumor into the same prognostic category as T1a–T1b, N0, M0.
BCI (H/I) Low • Patients with BCI (H/I) low demonstrated a lower risk of distant recurrence (compared to BCI [H/I] high) and
no significant improvement in disease-free survival (DFS) or OS compared to the control arm in terms of
Breast Cancer extending endocrine therapy duration.8
Index (BCI)e • For patients with T1 HR-positive, HER2-negative, and pN0 tumors, a BCI (H/I) high (5.1–10) demonstrated
significant rates of late distant recurrence.
BCI (H/I) High • In secondary analyses of the MA.17, Trans-aTTom, and IDEAL trials, patients with HR-positive, T1–T3, pN0
or pN+ who had a BCI (H/I) high demonstrated significant improvements in DFS when adjuvant endocrine
therapy was extended, compared to the control arm.8-11
a Gene expression assays provide prognostic and therapy-predictive information that complements T,N,M and biomarker information. Use of these assays is not required
for staging. The 21-gene assay (Oncotype Dx) is preferred by the NCCN Breast Cancer Panel for prognosis and prediction of chemotherapy benefit. Other prognostic
gene expression assays can provide prognostic information but the ability to predict chemotherapy benefit is unknown.
b Special Considerations for Breast Cancer in Males (Sex Assigned at Birth) (BINV-J).
e The benefit of testing BCI (H/I) for extended adjuvant endocrine therapy is unknown in patients who had ovarian function suppression, CDK4/6 inhibitors, or olaparib in
addition to adjuvant endocrine therapy. References on
BINV-N 5 of 5
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-N
4 OF 5
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
GENE EXPRESSION ASSAYS FOR CONSIDERATION OF ADJUVANT SYSTEMIC THERAPY
REFERENCES
1 Sparano JA, Gray RJ, Makower DF, et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy guided by a 21-gene expression assay in breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2018;379:111-121.
2 Kalinsky K, Barlow WE, Meric-Bernstam F, et al. First results from a phase III randomized clinical trial of standard adjuvant endocrine therapy (ET) +/- chemotherapy
(CT) in patients (pts) with 1-3 positive nodes, hormone receptor-positive (HR+) and HER2-negative (HER2-) breast cancer (BC) with recurrence score (RS) < 25:
SWOG S1007 (RxPonder). Cancer Res 2021;81:Abstract GS3-00.
3 Piccart M, van 't Veer LJ, Poncet C, et al. 70-gene signature as an aid for treatment decisions in early breast cancer: updated results of the phase 3 randomised
MINDACT trial with an exploratory analysis by age. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:476-488.
4 Laenkholm AV, Jensen MB, Eriksen JO, et al. PAM50 risk of recurrence score predicts 10-year distant recurrence in a comprehensive Danish cohort of
postmenopausal women allocated to 5 years of endocrine therapy for hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:735-740.
5 Sestak I, Buus R, Cuzick J, et al. Comparison of the performance of 6 prognostic signatures for estrogen receptor–positive breast cancer: A secondary analysis of a
randomized clinical trial. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:545-553.
6 Filipits M, Rudas M, Jakesz R, et al. A new molecular predictor of distant recurrence in ER-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer adds independent information to
conventional clinical risk factors. Clin Cancer Res 2011;17:6012-6020.
7 Sestak I, Martín M, Dubsky P, et al. Prediction of chemotherapy benefit by EndoPredict in patients with breast cancer who received adjuvant endocrine therapy plus
chemotherapy or endocrine therapy alone. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2019;176:377-386.
8 Noordhoek I, Treuner K, Putter H, et al. Breast cancer index predicts extended endocrine benefit to individualize selection of patients with HR(+) early-stage breast
cancer for 10 years of endocrine Therapy. Clin Cancer Res 2021;27:311-319.
9 Sgroi DC, Carney E, Zarrella E, et al. Prediction of late disease recurrence and extended adjuvant letrozole benefit by the HOXB13/IL17BR biomarker. J Natl Cancer
Inst 2013;105:1036-1042.
10 Blok EJ, Kroep JR, Meershoek-Klein Kranenbarg E, et al. Optimal duration of extended adjuvant endocrine therapy for early breast cancer; Results of the IDEAL
Trial (BOOG 2006-05). J Natl Cancer Inst 2017;110:40-48.
11 Bartlett JMS, Sgroi DC, Treuner K, et al. Breast cancer index and prediction of benefit from extended endocrine therapy in breast cancer patients treated in the
Adjuvant Tamoxifen-To Offer More? (aTTom) trial. Ann Oncol 2019;30:1776-1783.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-N
5 OF 5
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DEFINITION OF MENOPAUSE
• Menopause is the permanent cessation of menses and includes a profound and permanent decrease in ovarian estrogen synthesis.
• Determination of menopausal status may be required to guide selection of endocrine therapy for breast cancer.
• Menopause is usually a clinical diagnosis made after ≥12 months of amenorrhea. Natural menopause is experienced between ages 42–58
years.
• Breast cancer treatments may affect ovarian function and menses.
In those who are premenopausal at the beginning of chemotherapy and who develop chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea, ovarian function
may still be intact despite amenorrhea or may resume over time. The likelihood of ovarian function resuming after chemotherapy is higher
among those aged <40 years.
Tamoxifen may cause amenorrhea without inducing menopause in premenopausal individuals.
Ovarian function suppression induces amenorrhea and reduces ovarian estrogen synthesis without causing permanent menopause.
• Twelve months of amenorrhea alone is insufficient to diagnose menopause with chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea or with tamoxifen
± ovarian suppression. FSH and estradiol levels are used to support the diagnosis of menopause; however, clear criteria to guide
interpretation of FSH and estradiol in this population is lacking.
Tamoxifen may alter FSH levels, limiting its utility in determination of menopausal status.
FSH and estradiol should be repeated serially to ensure menopausal status in patients with breast cancer with chemotherapy-induced
amenorrhea.
• Evidence-based criteria for the diagnosis of menopause in patients with breast cancer are lacking. Clinical trials in breast cancer have
utilized a variety of definitions of menopause. Reasonable criteria for determining menopause in patients with breast cancer include any of
the following:
Prior bilateral oophorectomy
Age ≥60 years
Age <60 with amenorrhea for ≥12 months in the absence of prior chemotherapy, receipt of tamoxifen, toremifene, or ovarian suppression
and estradiol and FSH in the postmenopausal range
Age <60 years: chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea for ≥12 months with FSH and estradiol in post-menopausal range on serial
assessments
Age <60 years: on tamoxifen with FSH and estradiol level in postmenopausal range
• Menopausal status cannot be determined in those receiving ovarian function suppression
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-O
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ER- AND/OR PR-POSITIVE
RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
General Considerations for therapy selection for HR-positive disease
Ovarian function assessment: (see BINV-O and BINV-K 1 of 2)
• Assess serum estradiol prior to therapy initiation.
• If premenopausal or perimenopausal,
Ovarian suppression/ablation/resection plus anti-estrogen therapy is more effective than endocrine therapy alone.
Start OFS with or prior to initiation of endocrine therapy
Choice of endocrine therapy:
• Depends on prior adjuvant endocrine agent and disease-free interval (see BINV-P 2 of 3)
• Must balance benefit with additional side effects.
Endocrine + CDK4/6 inhibitor therapy:
• Endocrine therapy + CDK4/6 inhibitor is preferred over chemotherapy, even for extensive visceral involvement
• Chemotherapy recommended only if true visceral crisis
• If frail or extensive comorbidity, consider single agent aromatase inhibitor (AI).
Management of toxicity (particularly early in initiation of these therapies) is essential.
Duration of initial response to endocrine therapy can guide likelihood of benefit of continued endocrine therapy as later line therapy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-P
1 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ER- AND/OR PR-POSITIVE
RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASEa
HER2-Negative and Postmenopausal or
Premenopausal Receiving Ovarian Ablation or Suppression
See BINV-P 1 of 3 for general considerations for therapy selection for HR-positive, HER2-negative disease.
First-Line Therapy Second- and/or Subsequent-Line Therapy
Preferred Regimens Preferred Regimens
b
• Aromatase inhibitor + CDK4/6 inhibitor • Fulvestrant + CDK4/6 inhibitor (abemaciclib, palbociclib, or ribociclib) if CKD4/6
Aromatase inhibitor + ribociclib (category 1) c inhibitor not previously used (category 1) f,g
Aromatase inhibitor + abemaciclib • For HER2-negative tumors with PIK3CA or AKT1 activating mutations or PTEN
Aromatase inhibitor + palbociclib alterations, see BINV-Q (6) h
i,j
If disease progression on adjuvant endocrine therapy or relapse within 12 • Everolimus + endocrine therapy (exemestane, fulvestrant, tamoxifen)
months of adjuvant endocrine therapy completion consider: • Targeted therapy, see BINV-Q (6) and BINV-Q (7), and emerging biomarker
d b
• Fulvestrant + CDK4/6 inhibitor options, see BINV-Q (8)
Fulvestrant + ribociclib (category 1) e
Fulvestrant + abemaciclib (category 1) e
Fulvestrant + palbociclib
Useful in Certain Circumstances Useful in Certain Circumstances
• For HER2-negative tumors with PIK3CA activating mutations and • Megestrol acetate
disease progression on adjuvant endocrine therapy or relapse within 12 • Estradiol
l
months of adjuvant endocrine therapy completion, see BINV-Q (6) • Abemaciclib
• Targeted therapy, see BINV-Q (6) and BINV-Q (7), and emerging biomarker options,
see BINV-Q (8)
Other Recommended Regimens for first and/or subsequent lines of therapy
• For HER2-negative disease and ESR1 mutated tumors and after progression on one or two prior lines of endocrine therapy, including one line containing a
CDK4/6 inhibitor, see BINV-Q (6)
k
• Fulvestrant) + aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole, letrozole) (category 1)
• Fulvestrant
• Anastrozole
• Letrozole
• Tamoxifen
• Exemestane
Footnotes on BINV-P 3 of 3
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-P
2 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ER- AND/OR PR-POSITIVE
RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASEa
HER2-Positive and Postmenopausal
or Premenopausal Receiving Ovarian Ablation or Suppression
See BINV-Q (1) for Considerations for Systemic Therapy.
If treatment was initiated with chemotherapy and trastuzumab + pertuzumab, and the chemotherapy was
stopped, endocrine therapy may be added to trastuzumab + pertuzumab.
• Aromatase inhibitor ± trastuzumab
• Aromatase inhibitor ± lapatinib
• Aromatase inhibitor ± lapatinib + trastuzumab
• Fulvestrant ± trastuzumab
• Tamoxifen ± trastuzumab
• Abemaciclib in combination with fulvestrant and trastuzumab (category 2B)
• Targeted therapy see BINV-Q (7) and emerging biomarker options see BINV-Q (8)
a Baseline assessment of bone density recommended for patients receiving an aromatase inhibitor who are at risk of osteoporosis (eg, age >65, family history, chronic
steroids).
b There is controversy on the choice of CDK4/6 inhibitor as there are no head to head comparisons between the agents and there are some differences in the study
populations in the phase 3 randomized studies.
c In phase 3 randomized controlled trials, ribociclib + endocrine therapy have shown OS benefit in the first-line setting.
d Consider for disease progression on adjuvant endocrine therapy or with early disease relapse within 12 months of adjuvant endocrine therapy completion
e In phase 3 randomized controlled trials, fulvestrant + ribociclib or abemaciclib has shown OS benefit in the first-line setting
f In phase 3 randomized controlled trials, fulvestrant in combination with a CDK4/6 inhibitor (abemaciclib, palbociclib, and ribociclib) has shown OS benefit in the second-
line setting.
g If there is disease progression while on palbociclib, there are limited phase II data to support the use of ribociclib in the second line setting.
h If there is progression while on a PI3K inhibitor, there are limited data to support another line of therapy with a PI3K-pathway inhibitor-containing regimen.
i If there is disease progression while on an everolimus-containing regimen, there are no data to support an additional line of therapy with another everolimus regimen.
j A combination of exemestane with everolimus can be considered for patients who meet the eligibility criteria for BOLERO-2 (progressed within 12 mo or on non-
steroidal aromatase inhibitor).
k A single study (S0226) in patients with HR-positive breast cancer and no prior chemotherapy, biological therapy, or endocrine therapy for metastatic disease
demonstrated that the addition of fulvestrant to anastrozole resulted in prolongation of time to progression and OS. Subset analysis suggested that patients without
prior adjuvant tamoxifen and more than 10 years since diagnosis experienced the greatest benefit. Two studies with similar design (FACT and SOFEA) demonstrated
no advantage in time to progression with the addition of fulvestrant to anastrozole.
l Indicated after progression on prior endocrine therapy and prior chemotherapy in the metastatic setting.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-P
3 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
• For treatment of brain metastases, see NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers.
General considerations:
• An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for any recommended systemic biologic therapy in the NCCN Guidelines.
• Screen for and manage immunotherapy-related toxicities and endocrine dysfunctions (eg, hypothyroidism, adrenal insufficiency) in patients
treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors. See NCCN Guidelines for Management of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities.
• Regular cardiac monitoring for patients with current or prior use of anthracyclines or HER2-targeted therapy. See NCCN Guidelines for
Survivorship: Cardiovascular Disease Risk Assessment.
• Consider scalp cooling to reduce incidence of chemotherapy-induced alopecia for patients receiving chemotherapy. Results may be less
effective with anthracycline.
• When receiving taxane-containing regimen:
Alternative taxanes (ie, docetaxel, paclitaxel, albumin-bound paclitaxel) may be substituted for select patients due to medical necessity (ie,
hypersensitivity reaction). If substituted for weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel, then the weekly dose of albumin-bound paclitaxel should not
exceed 125 mg/m2.
Consider cryotherapy of hands and feet to decrease the risk of peripheral neuropathy.1,2
For Those Receiving HER2-targeted Therapy
• Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk subcutaneous injection may be substituted for trastuzumab IV; however, dosing and administration
instruction differ. Do not substitute trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-trastuzumab emtansine or fam-trastuzumab
deruxtecan-nxki.
• Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf subcutaneous injection may be substituted for IV pertuzumab and trastuzumab; however,
the dosing and administration instruction may differ.
• Patients previously treated with chemotherapy plus trastuzumab in the absence of pertuzumab in the metastatic setting may be considered
for one line of therapy including both trastuzumab plus pertuzumab in combination with or without cytotoxic therapy (such as vinorelbine or
taxane). Further research is needed to determine the ideal sequencing strategy for anti-HER2 therapy.
1 Sphar BG, Bowe C, Dains JE. The impact of peripheral cooling on chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy: An integrative review. J Adv Pract Oncol
2020;11:845-857.
2 Hanai A, Ishiguro H, Sozu T, et al. Effects of cryotherapy on objective and subjective symptoms of paclitaxel-induced neuropathy: Prospective self-controlled trial. J
Natl Cancer Inst 2018;110:141-148.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
1 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASEa
HR-Positive and HER2-Negative with Visceral Crisis† or Endocrine Refractory
See BINV-Q (1) for Considerations for Systemic Therapy.
Setting Subtype/Biomarker Regimen
First Line No germline BRCA1/2 mutationb Systemic chemotherapye (category 1, preferred) BINV-Q (5), or
and/or HER2 IHC 0+, 1+, or 2+/ISH fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxkie,f (other recommended regimen)
negatived
Germline BRCA1/2 mutationb PARPi (olaparib, talazoparib)c (category 1, preferred)
Second Line HER2 IHC 1+ or 2+/ISH negatived Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxkif (category 1, preferred)
HER2 IHC 0+d Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxkif (other recommended regimen)
Not a candidate for fam-trastuzumab Sacituzumab govitecang (category 1, preferred)
deruxtecan-nxki
Systemic chemotherapy BINV-Q (5)
Targeted therapy BINV-Q (6) and BINV-Q (7)
For HER2 IHC 0, 1+, or 2+/ISH negative:d
Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnkh (other recommended regimen)
Third Line and Any Systemic chemotherapy BINV-Q (5)
beyond
Biomarker positive (ie, MSI-H, NTRK, Targeted agents and emerging biomarker options BINV-Q (6),
RET, TMB-H) BINV-Q (7), and BINV-Q (8)
† According to the 5th ESO-ESMO international consensus guidelines (Cardoso F, et al. Ann Oncol 2020;31:1623-1649) for advanced breast cancer visceral crisis
is defined as: “severe organ dysfunction, as assessed by signs and symptoms, laboratory studies and rapid progression of disease. Visceral crisis is not the mere
presence of visceral metastases but implies important organ compromise leading to a clinical indication for the most rapidly efficacious therapy.”
a For treatment of brain metastases, see NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers.
b Assess for germline BRCA1/2 mutations in all patients with recurrent or metastatic breast cancer to identify candidates for PARPi therapy.
c PARPi can be considered for a later line for those with germline BRCA1/2 mutation, however available evidence suggests it is more effective if used earlier.
d Principles of HER2 Testing (BINV-A). The distinction between HER2 test results of IHC 0/absent membrane staining, IHC 0+/with membrane staining (faint, partial
membraine staining in ≤10%), IHC 1+, or 2+/ISH negative is currently clinically relevant for therapy selection.
e Systemic chemotherapy (eg, oral chemotherapy) is generally preferred in the first-line setting. Selection of systemic therapy versus fam-trastuzumab-nxki for first-line
therapy should be individualized based on clinical features and patient preference.
f Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki may be used in those previously treated with at least one line of endocrine-based therapy in the metastatic setting. Fam-
trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki is associated with interstitial lung disease (ILD)/pneumonitis. Regular monitoring for this serious side effect is recommended. For patients
with a history of ILD/pneumonitis, there are no data on managing safety or toxicity of this drug in a trial.
g Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy may be used after prior treatment including endocrine therapy, a CDK4/6 inhibitor, and at least two lines of chemotherapy, one of which
was a taxane, and at least one of which was in the metastatic setting. It may be considered for later line if not used as second line therapy.
h Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk is indicated as second- or subsequent-line therapy for those who have received a prior endocrine-based therapy and chemotherapy for
unresectable or metastatic disease. Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk did not meet the OS endpoint in the TROPION-Breast01 trial. Whereas the previously approved
antibody drug conjugates (ADC), fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki and sacituzumab govitecan have shown a benefit in OS in randomized phase III trials. The benefit
of using datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk in patients with prior ADC treatment are not known as the TROPION-Breast01 trial did not include patients with prior ADC
treatment.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
2 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASEa
HR-Negative and HER2-Negative (Triple-Negative Breast Cancer; TNBC)
See BINV-Q (1) for Considerations for systemic therapy.
Setting Subtype/Biomarker Regimen
First Line PD-L1 CPS ≥10g regardless of germline BRCA Pembrolizumab + chemotherapy (albumin-bound paclitaxel,
mutation statusb paclitaxel, or gemcitabine and carboplatin)i (category 1, preferred)
PD-L1 CPS <10g and no germline BRCA1/2
Systemic chemotherapy BINV-Q (5)
mutationb
• PARPi (olaparib, talazoparib) (category 1, preferred)
PD-L1 CPS <10g and germline BRCA1/2 mutationb
• Platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) (category 1, preferred)
Second Germline BRCA1/2 mutationb PARPi (olaparib, talazoparib) (category 1, preferred)
Line Sacituzumab govitecanj (category 1, preferred)
Any
Systemic chemotherapy BINV-Q (5) or targeted agents BINV-Q (7)
No germline BRCA1/2 mutationb
Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxkik (other recommended regimen)
and HER2 IHC 1+ or 2+/ISH negatived
Third Line Targeted agents and emerging biomarker options BINV-Q (7) and
Biomarker positive (ie, MSI-H, NTRK, RET, TMB-H)
and beyond BINV-Q (8)
Any Systemic chemotherapy BINV-Q (5)
a For treatment of brain metastases, see NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers.
b Assess for germline BRCA1/2 mutations in all patients with recurrent or metastatic breast cancer to identify candidates for PARPi therapy.
d Principles of HER2 Testing (BINV-A). The distinction between HER2 test results of IHC 0/absent membrane staining, IHC 0+/with membrane staining (faint, partial
membraine staining in ≤10%), IHC 1+, or 2+/ISH negative is currently clinically relevant for therapy selection.
g PD-L1 expression is assessed using 22C3 antibody. Threshold for positivity combined positive score ≥10.
i While available data are in the first-line setting, this regimen can be used for second and subsequent lines of therapy if PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy has not been
previously used. If there is disease progression while on a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor, there are no data to support an additional line of therapy with another PD-1/PD-L1
inhibitor.
j Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy may be considered for later line if not used as second line therapy.
k Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan may be considered in a later line for HER2 IHC 1+ or 2+/ISH negative, if not used in second line or may be considered first line
therapy when disease has progressed during or within 6 months after completing adjuvant chemotherapy. Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki is associated with ILD/
pneumonitis. Regular monitoring for this serious side effect is recommended. For patients with a history of ILD/pneumonitis, there are no data on managing safety or
toxicity of this drug in a trial.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
3 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASEa,l
HR-Positive or -Negative and HER2-Positivem
See BINV-Q (1) for Considerations for systemic HER2-targeted therapy.
Setting Regimen
Pertuzumab + trastuzumab + docetaxel (category 1, preferred)
First Linen
Pertuzumab + trastuzumab + paclitaxel (preferred)
Second Lineo Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxkin (category 1, preferred)
Tucatinib + trastuzumab + capecitabineo (category 1, preferred)
Third Line
Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1)p
Trastuzumab + docetaxel or vinorelbine
Trastuzumab + paclitaxel ± carboplatin
Capecitabine + trastuzumab or lapatinib
Fourth Line
Trastuzumab + lapatinib (without cytotoxic therapy)
and Beyond
(optimal Trastuzumab + other chemotherapy agentsr,s
sequence is Neratinib + capecitabine
not known)q
Margetuximab-cmkb + chemotherapy (capecitabine, eribulin, gemcitabine, or vinorelbine)
Abemaciclib in combination with fulvestrant and trastuzumab (for HR+ only) (category 2B)
Targeted Therapy and emerging biomarker Options BINV-Q (7) and BINV-Q (8)
a For treatment of brain metastases, see NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers.
l Assess for germline BRCA1/2 mutations in all patients with recurrent or metastatic breast cancer to identify candidates for PARPi therapy. While olaparib and talazoparib
are FDA-indicated in HER2-negative disease, the panel supports use in any breast cancer subtype associated with a germline mutation. There is lower-level evidence for
HER2-positive tumors, therefore category 2A for this setting.
m Maintenance trastuzumab/pertuzumab after response (with concurrent endocrine therapy if ER+ and HER2+ metastatic breast cancer).
n Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki may be considered in the first-line setting as an option for select patients (ie, those with rapid progression within 6 months of
neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy [12 months for pertuzumab-containing regimens]). Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki is associated with ILD/pneumonitis. Regular
monitoring for this serious side effect is recommended. For patients with a history of ILD/pneumonitis, there are no data on managing safety or toxicity of this drug in a
trial.
o Tucatinib + trastuzumab + capecitabine is preferred in patients with both systemic and CNS progression in the third-line setting and beyond; and it may be given in the
second-line setting.
p May be used as an option for third-line and beyond; the optimal sequence for third-line therapy and beyond is not known. If not a candidate fam-trastuzumab T-DM1
could be considered in the second-line.
q Multiple lines of concurrent chemotherapy with anti-HER2 therapy (trastuzumab or a TKI) offer clinical benefit for recurrent unresectable HER2+ metastatic breast cancer
and have been studied in phase 2 or 3 trials. Clinical experience suggests frequent clinical benefit for such treatment. However, there are no meaningful data for use
of any of these regimens among patients previously treated with pertuzumab-based chemotherapy, ado-trastuzumab emtansine, fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki, or
trastuzumab/capecitabine/tucatinib regimens. Thus, the optimal sequence or true benefit of therapy is not known.
r Trastuzumab given in combination with an anthracycline is associated with significant cardiac toxicity. Concurrent use of trastuzumab and pertuzumab with an
anthracycline should be avoided.
s Trastuzumab may be safely combined with all non-anthracycline–containing preferred and other single agents listed on (BINV-Q 5) for recurrent or metastatic breast
cancer.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
4 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
Systemic Chemotherapy for HR-Positive or -Negative and HER2-Negativea
See BINV-Q (1) for Considerations for systemic chemotherapy.
Sequential single agents are preferred, but chemotherapy combinations may be used in select patients with high tumor
burden, rapidly progressing disease, and visceral crisis.
Preferred Regimens Other Recommended Regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Anthracyclines • Cyclophosphamide • AC (doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide)
Doxorubicin • Docetaxel • EC (epirubicin/cyclophosphamide)
Liposomal doxorubicin • Albumin-bound paclitaxel • CMF (cyclophosphamide/
• Epirubicin methotrexate/fluorouracil)
• Taxanes
• Ixabepilone • Docetaxel/capecitabine
Paclitaxel
• GT (gemcitabine/paclitaxel)
• Anti-metabolites
• Gemcitabine/carboplatin
Capecitabine
• Carboplatin + paclitaxel or albumin-bound paclitaxel
Gemcitabine
• Microtubule inhibitors
Vinorelbine
Eribulin
• For specific lines of systemic therapy options for HR-positive and HER2-negative with visceral crisis or endocrine refractory, see BINV-Q (2).
• For specific lines of systemic therapy options for HR-negative and HER2-negative (TNBC), see BINV-Q (3).
• For specific lines of systemic therapy options for HR-negative or -positive and HER2-positive, see BINV-Q (4).
a For treatment of brain metastases, see NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
5 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
TARGETED THERAPIES AND ASSOCIATED BIOMARKER TESTING
FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
Biomarkers Associated with FDA-Approved Therapies
Breast Cancer Biomarker Detectiont FDA-Approved Agents NCCN Category NCCN Category
Subtype of Evidence of Preference
Useful in certain
HR-positive, PIK3CA activating Inavolisib + palbociclib +
NGS, PCR Category 1 circumstances
HER2-negative mutation fulvestrantu
first-line therapy
Preferred second-
HR-positive/ PIK3CA activating
NGS, PCR Alpelisib + fulvestrantv Category 1 or subsequent-line
HER2-negative mutation
therapy
Preferred second-
PIK3CA or AKT1
HR-positive/ or subsequent-line
activating mutations NGS, PCR Capivasertib + fulvestrantw Category 1
HER2-negative therapy in select
or PTEN alterations
patientsw
Other
recommended
HR-positive/
ESR1 mutationx NGS, PCR Elacestrant Category 2A regimen
HER2-negativex
subsequent-line
therapy
Continued
t Some plasma-based ctDNA assays include a measure of tumor fraction (TF), which can aid in identification of low ctDNA content. Samples with low TF, especially
<1%, should be interpreted with caution. Tests have varying sensitivities at low TF. Additional sampling from current tumor sample or future plasma can be considered.
u Consider for disease progression on adjuvant endocrine therapy or with early disease relapse within 12 months of adjuvant endocrine therapy completion.
v The safety of alpelisib in patients with Type 1 or uncontrolled Type 2 diabetes has not been established.
w In adult patients with PIK3CA or AKT1 activating mutations, or for PTEN alterations after disease progression or recurrence after ≥1 prior lines of endocrine therapy,
including one line containing a CDK4/6 inhibitor.
x Assess for ESR1 mutations at progression following prior lines of endocrine therapy (ctDNA preferred).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
6 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
TARGETED THERAPIES AND ASSOCIATED BIOMARKER TESTING
FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
Biomarkers Associated with FDA-Approved Therapies
Breast Cancer Biomarker Detectiont FDA-Approved Agents NCCN Category NCCN Category
Subtype of Evidence of Preference
Germline BRCA1 or Olaparib
Any Germline sequencing Category 1 Preferred
BRCA2 mutation Talazoparib
Other
Any Germline PALB2 Germline sequencing Olapariby Category 2A recommended
regimen
Larotrectinibz
Any NTRK fusion FISH, NGS, PCR Entrectinibz Category 2Aaa
Repotrectinibaa
Pembrolizumabbb
Useful in certain
Any MSI-H/dMMR IHC, NGS, PCR Category 2A
Dostarlimab-gxlycc circumstances
TMB-H
Any NGS Pembrolizumabbb Category 2A
(≥10 mut/Mb)dd
Any RET-fusion NGS Selpercatinibee Category 2A
t Some plasma-based ctDNA assays include a measure of TF, which can aid in identification of low ctDNA content. Samples with low TF, especially <1%, should be
interpreted with caution. Tests have varying sensitivities at low TF. Additional sampling from current tumor sample or future plasma can be considered.
y This regimen is not FDA approved for this indication. Tung NM, Robson ME, Ventz S, et al. TBCRC 048: phase II study of olaparib for metastatic breast cancer and
mutations in homologous recombination-related genes. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:4274-4282.
z Larotrectinib and entrectinib are indicated for the treatment of solid tumors that have an NTRK gene fusion without a known acquired resistance mutation and have no
satisfactory alternative treatments or that have progressed following treatment.
aa Repotrectinib is indicated for the treatment of solid tumors that have an NTRK gene fusion and are locally advanced or metastatic or where surgical resection is likely
to result in severe morbidity and have progressed following treatment or have no satisfactory alternative therapy. The recommendation in the first-line setting is category
2B.
bb Pembrolizumab is indicated for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or mismatch repair deficient (dMMR)
solid tumors, or TMB-H tumors that have progressed following prior treatment and who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options.
cc Dostarlimab-gxly is indicated for adult patients with MSI-H/dMMR unresectable or metastatic tumors that have progressed on or following prior treatment and who have
no satisfactory alternative treatment options.
dd Tissue biopsy is more sensitive than ctDNA (liquid biopsy) at detecting homozygous copy loss of PTEN or TMB-H.
ee Selpercatinib is indicated for adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors with a RET gene fusion that have progressed on or following prior systemic
treatment or who have no satisfactory alternative treatment options.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
7 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
EMERGING BIOMARKERS AND NOVEL THERAPIES FOR PATIENTS WITH STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
Breast Cancer Emerging Detectiont Potential Targeted NCCN Category NCCN Category of
Subtype Biomarkers Therapyff of Evidence Preference
ER+/HER2- HER2 activating NGS, PCR Neratinib ± fulvestrantgg Category 2B Useful in certain
ER-/HER2- mutations circumstances
• If ER+/HER2-, in
patients who have
Neratinib + trastuzumab/ Category 2A
already received
fulvestranthh
CDK4/6 inhibitor
therapy.
Any Somatic BRCA1/2 NGS Olaparibii Category 2B Useful in certain
mutations circumstances
Any FGFR1-3 fusion/ NGS Erdafitinibjj Category 2B Useful in certain
mutation circumstances
t Some plasma-based ctDNA assays include a measure of TF, which can aid in identification of low ctDNA content. Samples with low TF, especially <1%, should be
interpreted with caution. Tests have varying sensitivities at low TF. Additional sampling from current tumor sample or future plasma can be considered.
ff At the present time, the data for the emerging biomarkers for the potential targeted agents noted in the table are promising but limited.
gg Ma CX, Luo J, Freedman RA, et al. The phase II MutHER study of neratinib alone and in combination with fulvestrant in HER2-mutated, non-amplified metastatic
breast cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2022;28:1258-1267.
hh Jhaveri K, Eli LD, Wildiers H, et al. Neratinib + fulvestrant + trastuzumab for HR-positive, HER2-negative, HER2-mutant metastatic breast cancer: outcomes and
biomarker analysis from the SUMMIT trial. Ann Oncol 2023;34:885-898.
ii Tung NM, Robson ME, Ventz S, et al. TBCRC 048: phase II study of olaparib for metastatic breast cancer and mutations in homologous recombination-related genes.
J Clin Oncol 2020;38:4274-4282.
jj Pant S, Schuler M, Iyer G, et al. Erdafitinib in patients with advanced solid tumours with FGFR alterations (RAGNAR): an international, single-arm, phase 2 study.
Lancet Oncol 2023;24:925-935.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
8 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: SYSTEMIC THERAPY REGIMENS FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
HER2-Negative Regimens:
• Anthracyclines: • Cyclophosphamide 14 • Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki 25 • Gemcitabine/carboplatin 31
Doxorubicin 60–75 mg/m2 IV day 1; cycled 50 mg PO daily on days 1–21 5.4 mg/kg IV day 1 Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 on days 1 and 8
every 21 days 1 Cycled every 28 days Cycled every 21 days Carboplatin AUC 2 IV on days 1 and 8
Doxorubicin 20 mg/m2 IV day 1 weekly 2 26 ◊ Cycled every 21 days
Liposomal doxorubicin 3 50 mg/m2 IV day 1; • Datopotamab deruxtecan-dlnk 15 •  AC Doxorubicin 60 mg/m2 IV day 1
cycled every 28 days 6 mg/kg IV day 1 Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day • Carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel 32
Cycled every 21 days Carboplatin AUC 2 IV on days 1 and 8
•  Ta P x a a c n li e ta s x : el 175 mg/m2 IV day 1; cycled every 21 • Docetaxel 16,17 1 ◊ Cycled every 21 days Albumin-bound paclitaxel 125 mg/m2 IV on
days 4 60–100 mg/m2 IV day 1 27 days 1 and 8
• EC Cycled every 21 days
Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV day 1 weekly 5 Cycled every 21 days Epirubicin 75 mg/m2 IV day 1
33,34
• Antimetabolites: • Docetaxel 18 Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 IV day •  Ca P r a b c o li p ta l x a e ti l n 1 /p 75 a – c 2 li 0 ta 0 x m el g/m2 IV day 1
Capecitabine 6 1000–1250 mg/m2 PO twice 35 mg/m2 IV weekly for 6 weeks 1
Carboplatin AUC 6 IV day 1
C
d
a
a
p
ily
e c
d
i
a
ta
y
b
s
i n
1
e
–
7
1 4
1
;
5
c
0
y
0
c
m
le
g
d
P
ev
O
e r
t
y
w i
2
c
1
e
d
d
a
a
y
il
s
y days
followed by a 2-week rest, then repeat ◊ C
28
ycled every 21 days Cycled every 21 days
• Albumin-bound paclitaxel 19,20 • CMF or
G 1 a – n e 7 d m a 1 ci n 5 ta d ; b c d i y n a c e y le 8 s d 8 1 e 0 5 v 0 – e – 2 r 1 1 y 2 c 2 0 y 8 0 c d l m e a d g y / s e m v 2 e I r V y 2 d 8 a y d s a 1 ys , 8,   C 1 o 0 y r 0 c 1 l 2 e m 5 d g m e /m v g e 2 / r m y 2 2 I 8 V d d a a y y s s 1, 8, and 15   C M d y a e c y th l s o o p 1 t h r – e o 1 x s 4 a p t h e a 4 m 0 i d m e g 1 /m 00 2 I m V g d / a m y 2 s P 1 O    P C C a a yc c rb l l e it o a d p x l e e a v l t i e 1 n r 0 y A 0 U 2 m 8 C g d 2 / a m y IV 2 s I d V a d y a s y 1 s , 1 8 , , 8 a , n a d n 1 d 5 15
• Microtubule inhibitors: and 8
Vinorelbine 9,10 • Albumin-bound paclitaxel 19 5-fluorouracil 600 mg/m2 IV days 1
◊ 25 mg/m2 IV day 1 weekly; or 260 mg/m2 IV and 8 See dosing for targeted therapies on
◊ 20–35 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 8; cycled every Cycled every 21 days ◊ Cycled every 28 days BINV-Q (14)
21 days; or 29
21 • Docetaxel/capecitabine
◊ 25–30 mg/m2 IV days 1, 8, and 15; cycled • Epirubicin Docetaxel 75 mg/m2 IV day 1
every 28 days 60–90 mg/m2 IV day 1 Capecitabine 950 mg/m2 PO twice
Eribulin 11 1.4 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 8; cycled Cycled every 21 days daily days 1–14
every 21 days • Ixabepilone 22 ◊ Cycled every 21 days
• Platinum (for TNBC and germline BRCA1/2 40 mg/m2 IV day 1 30
• GT
 m C u a ta rb ti o o p n la ) tin 12 AUC 6 IV on day 1 Cycled every 21 days Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 IV day 1
Gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 IV days 1
◊ Cycled every 21–28 days • Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy
Cisplatin 13 75 mg/m2 IV on day 1 (for TNBC or HR+/HER2-) 23,24 and 8 (following paclitaxel on day 1)
◊ Cycled every 21 days
◊ Cycled every 21 days 10 mg/kg IV on days 1 and 8
Cycled every 21 days
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose References on
and schedule and initiation of supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior BINV-Q 12 of 15
treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-
cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
9 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: SYSTEMIC THERAPY REGIMENS FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
HER2-Positive Regimenskk,ll:
• Pertuzumab + trastuzumab + docetaxel35 • Tucatinib + trastuzumab + capecitabine38 • Weekly paclitaxel/carboplatin + trastuzumab42
Pertuzumab 840 mg IV day 1 followed by 420 Tucatinib 300 mg orally twice daily on Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV days 1, 8, and 15
mg IV days 1–21 Carboplatin AUC 2 IV days 1, 8, and 15
Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed ◊ Cycled every 28 days
mg/kg IV day 1 every 21 days by 6 mg/kg IV day 1 every 21 days Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 2 mg/kg IV
Docetaxel 75–100 mg/m2 IV day 1 Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 orally twice weekly
◊ Cycled every 21 days daily on days 1–14 or
Cycled every 21 days Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg IV
• Pertuzumab + trastuzumab + paclitaxel36,37 • Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1)39 day 1 every 21 days37
Pertuzumab 840 mg IV day 1 followed by 420 3.6 mg/kg IV day 1 • Trastuzumab + paclitaxel43,44
mg IV ◊ Cycled every 21 days Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 IV day 1 cycled every 21 days43
◊ Cycled every 21 days
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 2 • Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki40 P or aclitaxel 80–90 mg/m2 IV day 1 weekly45
mg/kg IV weekly 5.4 mg/kg IV day 1
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 2 mg/kg IV
or ◊ Cycled every 21 days
weekly
Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 • Paclitaxel/carboplatin + trastuzumab41 or
mg/kg IV day 1 every 21 days38 Carboplatin AUC 6 IV day 1 Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg IV
Paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 IV day 1 weekly36 or Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 IV day 1 day 1 every 21 days37
Paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 day 1 ◊ Cycled every 21 days
◊ Cycled every 21 days Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed • Trastuzumab + docetaxel45,46
Docetaxel 80–100 mg/m2 IV day 1 cycled every 21 days45
by 2 mg/kg IV weekly
or
or
Docetaxel 35 mg/m2 IV days 1, 8, and 15 weekly cycled
Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed
by 6 mg/kg IV day 1 every 21 days37 every 28 days46
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 2 mg/kg IV
weekly
kk Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk injection for subcutaneous use may be substituted for or
trastuzumab. It has different dosage and administration instructions compared to intravenous Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg IV
trastuzumab. Do not substitute trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-trastuzumab day 1 every 21 days37
emtansine or fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki.
ll Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous use may be substituted
See dosing for targeted therapies on
anywhere that the combination of intravenous pertuzumab and intravenous trastuzumab are given as
BINV-Q (14)
part of systemic therapy. Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and hyaluronidase-zzxf injection for subcutaneous
use has different dosing and administration instructions compared to the intravenous products.
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose References on
and schedule and initiation of supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior BINV-Q 12 of 15
treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-
cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
10 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: SYSTEMIC THERAPY REGIMENS FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
HER2-Positive Regimens (continued)kk:
• Trastuzumab + vinorelbine10,47,48 • Trastuzumab + lapatinib53 • Margetuximab-cmkb + capecitabine 55
Vinorelbine Lapatinib 1000 mg PO daily for 21 days Margetuximab 15 mg/kg IV day 1
◊ 25 mg/m2 IV day 1 weekly; or Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 2 mg/kg IV Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 PO twice daily
◊ 20–35 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 8; cycled every 21 weekly days 1–14
days; or or ◊ Cycled every 21 days
◊ 25–30 mg/m2 IV days 1, 8, and 15; cycled every
Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg IV • Margetuximab-cmkb + eribulin 55
28 days
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 2 mg/kg day 1 every 21 days37 Margetuximab 15 mg/kg IV day 1
IV weekly • Neratinib + capecitabine54 Eribulin 1.4 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 8
or Neratinib 240 mg PO daily on days 1–21 ◊ Cycled every 21 days
Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg Capecitabine 750 mg/m2 PO twice daily on days 1–14 • Margetuximab-cmkb + gemcitabine 55
IV day 1 every 21 days37 ◊ Cycled every 21 days Margetuximab 15 mg/kg IV day 1
• Trastuzumab + capecitabine49,50,51 or Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 8
Capecitabine 1000–1250 mg/m2 PO twice daily Neratinib ◊ Cycled every 21 days
◊ 120 mg PO daily on days 1–7; followed by
days 1–14 cycled every 21 days • Margetuximab-cmkb + vinorelbine 55
Trastuzumab 4 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 2 mg/kg ◊ 160 mg PO daily on days 8–14; followed by Margetuximab 15 mg/kg IV day 1
IV weekly43,50 ◊ 240 mg PO daily on days 15–21 Vinorelbine 25–30 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 8
or Capecitabine 750 mg/m² PO twice daily on days 1–14
◊ Cycled every 21 days
Trastuzumab 8 mg/kg IV day 1 followed by 6 mg/kg ◊ Cycled every 21 days x 1 cycle
IV day 1 every 21 days35,37 Followed by
Neratinib 240 mg PO daily on days 1–21 See dosing for targeted therapies on
• Lapatinib + capecitabine52 Capecitabine 750 mg/m² PO twice daily on days 1–14 BINV-Q (14)
Lapatinib 1250 mg PO daily days 1–21 ◊ Cycled every 21 days beginning with cycle 2
Capecitabine 1000 mg/m2 PO twice daily days 1–14
◊ Cycled every 21 days
kk Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk injection for subcutaneous use may be substituted for trastuzumab. It has different dosage and administration instructions
compared to intravenous trastuzumab. Do not substitute trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk for or with ado-trastuzumab emtansine or fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki.
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose
and schedule and initiation of supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior
treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of anti-cancer agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-
References on
cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with cancer.
BINV-Q 12 of 15
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
11 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY REGIMENS FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
REFERENCES
1 Chan S, Friedrichs K, Noel D, et al. Prospective randomized trial of docetaxel versus 16 Burris HA, 3rd. Single-agent docetaxel (Taxotere) in randomized phase III trials. Semin
doxorubicin in patients with metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:2341-2354. Oncol 1999;26:1-6.
2 Gasparini G, Dal Fior S, Panizzoni GA, et al. Weekly epirubicin versus doxorubicin as 17 Harvey V, Mouridsen H, Semiglazov V, et al. Phase III trial comparing three doses
second line therapy in advanced breast cancer. A randomized clinical trial. Am J Clin Oncol of docetaxel for second-line treatment of advanced breast cancer. J Clin Oncol
1991;14:38-44. 2006;24:4963-4970.
3 O'Brien ME, Wigler N, Inbar M, et al. Reduced cardiotoxicity and comparable efficacy in a 18 Rivera E, Mejia JA, Arun BJ, et al. Phase 3 study comparing the use of docetaxel on
phase III trial of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin HCl (CAELYX/Doxil) versus conventional an every-3-week versus weekly schedule in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
doxorubicin for first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Ann Oncol 2004;15:440-449. Cancer 2008;112:1455-1461.
4 Seidman AD, Tiersten A, Hudis C, et al. Phase II trial of paclitaxel by 3-hour infusion as 19 Gradishar WJ, Tjulandin S, Davidson N, et al. Phase III trial of nanoparticle albumin-
initial and salvage chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 1995;13:2575- bound paclitaxel compared with polyethylated castor oil-based paclitaxel in women with
2581. breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:7794-7803.
5 Perez EA, Vogel CL, Irwin DH, et al. Multicenter phase II trial of weekly paclitaxel in 20 Gradishar W, Dimitry K, Sergey C, et al. Significantly longer progression-free survival
women with metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:4216-4223. with nab-paclitaxel compared with docetaxel as first-line therapy for metastatic breast
6 Bajetta E, Procopio G, Celio L, et al. Safety and efficacy of two different doses of cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:3611-3619.
capecitabine in the treatment of advanced breast cancer in older women. J Clin Oncol 21 Bastholt L, Dalmark M, Gjedde SB, et al. Dose-response relationship of epirubicin in
2005;23:2155-2161. the treatment of postmenopausal patients with metastatic breast cancer: a randomized
7 Khan QJ, Bohnenkamp C, Monson T, et al. Randomized trial of fixed dose capecitabine study of epirubicin at four different dose levels performed by the Danish Breast Cancer
compared to standard dose capecitabine in metastatic breast cancer: The X-7/7 trial. J Clin Cooperative Group. J Clin Oncol 1996;14:1146-1155.
Oncol 2023;41:1007-1007. 22 Perez E, Lerzo G, Pivot X, et al. Efficacy and safety of ixabepilone (BMS-247550) in a
8 Seidman AD. Gemcitabine as single-agent therapy in the management of advanced breast phase II study of patients with advanced breast cancer resistant to an anthracycline, a
cancer. Oncology (Williston Park) 2001;15:11-14. taxane, and capecitabine. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3407-3414.
9 Zelek L, Barthier S, Riofrio M, et al. Weekly vinorelbine is an effective palliative regimen 23 Bardia A, Mayer IA, Vahdat LT, et al. Sacituzumab govitecan-hziy in refractory
after failure with anthracyclines and taxanes in metastatic breast carcinoma. Cancer metastatic triple negative breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;380:741-751.
2001;92:2267-2272. 24 Rugo HS, Bardia A, Marme F, et al. Primary Results from TROPiCS-02: A randomized
10 Esfahani K, Ferrario C, Le P, Panasci L. The trastuzumab and vinorelbine combination: phase 3 study of sacituzumab govitecan (SG) versus treatment of physician’s choice
an alternative to taxane-based chemotherapy for early-stage and locally advanced her2- (TPC) in patients with hormone receptor-positive/HER2-negative (HR+/HER2-) advanced
positive breast cancer. Curr Oncol 2014;21:e723-e727. breast cancer [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:Abstract LB1001.
11 Cortes J, O'Shaughnessy J, Loesch D, et al. Eribulin monotherapy versus treatment of 25 Modi S, Jacot W, Yamashita T, et al. Trastuzumab deruxtecan in previously treated
physician's choice in patients with metastatic breast cancer (EMBRACE): a phase 3 open- HER2-low advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2022;7;387:9-20.
label randomised study. Lancet 2011;377:914-923. 26 Nabholtz JM, Falkson C, Campos D, et al. Docetaxel and doxorubicin compared with
12 Isakoff SJ, Mayer EL, He L, et al. TBCRC009: A multicenter phase II clinical trial of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide as first-line chemotherapy for metastatic breast
platinum monotherapy with biomarker assessment in metastatic triple-negative breast cancer: results of a randomized, multicenter, phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:968-
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:1902-1909. 975.
13 Silver DP, Richardson AL, Eklund AC, et al. Efficacy of neoadjuvant cisplatin in triple- 27 Langley RE, Carmichel J, Jones AL, et al. Phase III trial of epirubicin plus paclitaxel
negative breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1145-1153. compared with epirubicin plus cyclophosphamide as first-line chemotherapy for
14 Licchetta A, Correale P, Migali C, et al. Oral metronomic chemo-hormonal-therapy of metastatic breast cancer: United Kingdom Cancer Research Institute. J Clin Oncol
metastatic breast cancer with cyclophosphamide and megestrol acetate. J Chemother 2005;23:8322-8330.
2010;22:201-204. 28 Bonadonna G, Brusamolino E, Valagussa P, et al. Combination chemotherapy as an
15 Bardia A, Jhaveri K, Im SA, et al. Datopotamab deruxtecan versus chemotherapy in adjuvant treatment in operable breast cancer. N Engl J Med 1976;294:405-410.
previously treated inoperable/metastatic hormone receptor–positive human epidermal 29 Mavroudis D, Papakotoulas P, Ardavanis A, et al. Randomized phase III trial comparing
growth factor receptor 2–negative breast cancer: Primary Results from TROPION- docetaxel plus epirubicin versus docetaxel plus capecitabine as first-line treatment in
Breast01. J Clin Oncol 2025;43:285-296. women with advanced breast cancer. Ann Oncol 2010;21:48-54.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
12 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY REGIMENS FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
REFERENCES
30 Albain KS, Nag S, Calderillo-Ruiz G, et al. Gemcitabine plus paclitaxel versus 43 Slamon DJ, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S, et al. Use of chemotherapy plus a monoclonal
paclitaxel monotherapy in patients with metastatic breast cancer and prior antibody against HER2 for metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2. N Engl J Med
anthracycline treatment. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:3950-3957. 2001;344:783-792.
31 O’Shaughnessy J, Schwartzberg LS, Danso MA, et al. A randomized phase III 44 Seidman A, Berry DA, Cirrincione C, et al. Randomized phase III trial of weekly compared
study of iniparib (BSI-201) in combination with gemcitabine/carboplatin (G/C) in with every-3-weeks paclitaxel for metastatic breast cancer, with trastuzumab for all HER-2
metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2011;29 overexpressors and random assignment to trastuzumab or not in HER-2 nonoverexpressors:
(Suppl_15):Abstract 1007. final results of Cancer and Leukemia Group B protocol 9840. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:1642-1649.
32 Yardley DA, Coleman R, Conte P, et al. nab-Paclitaxel plus carboplatin or 45 Marty M, Cognetti F, Maraninchi D, et al. Randomized phase II trial of the efficacy and safety
gemcitabine versus gemcitabine plus carboplatin as first-line treatment of patients of trastuzumab combined with docetaxel in patients with human epidermal growth factor
with triple-negative metastatic breast cancer: results from the tnAcity trial. Ann Oncol receptor 2-positive metastatic breast cancer administered as first-line treatment: the M77001
2018;29:1763-1770. study group. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:4265-4274.
33 Perez EA, Hillman DW, Stella PJ, et al. A phase II study of paclitaxel plus 46 Esteva FJ, Valero V, Booser D, et al. Phase II study of weekly docetaxel and trastuzumab for
carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy for women with metastatic breast carcinoma. patients with HER-2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:1800-1808.
Cancer 2000;88:124-131. 47 Burstein HJ, Keshaviah A, Baron AD, et al. Trastuzumab plus vinorelbine or taxane
34 Loesch D, Robert N, Asmar L, et al. Phase II multicenter trial of a weekly paclitaxel chemotherapy for HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer: the trastuzumab and
and carboplatin regimen in patients with advanced breast cancer. J Clin Oncol vinorelbine or taxane study. Cancer 2007;110:965-972.
2002;20:3857-3864. 48 Andersson M, Lidbrink E, Bjerre K, et al. Phase III randomized study comparing docetaxel
35 Baselga J, Cortes J, Kim SB, et al. Pertuzumab plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel plus trastuzumab with vinorelbine plus trastuzumab as first-line therapy of metastatic or locally
for metastatic breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2012;366:109-119. advanced human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive breast cancer: the HERNATA
36 Datko F, D'Andrea G, Dickler M, et al. Phase II study of pertuzumab, trastuzumab, study. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:264-271.
and weekly paclitaxel in patients with metastatic HER2-overexpressing metastatic 49 von Minckwitz G, du Bois A, Schmidt M, et al. Trastuzumab beyond progression in human
breast cancer [abstract]. Cancer Res 2012;72:Abstract P5-18-20. epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive advanced breast cancer: a german breast group 26/
37 Leyland-Jones B, Gelmon K, Ayoub JP, et al. Pharmacokinetics, safety, and breast international group 03-05 study. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1999-2006.
efficacy of trastuzumab administered every three weeks in combination with 50 Cobleigh MA, Vogel CL, Tripathy D, et al. Multinational study of the efficacy and safety
paclitaxel. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:3965-3971. of humanized anti-HER2 monoclonal antibody in women who have HER2-overexpressing
38 Murthy RK, Loi S, Okines A, et al. Tucatinib, trastuzumab, and capecitabine for metastatic breast cancer that has progressed after chemotherapy for metastatic disease. J Clin
HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2020;382:597-609. Oncol 1999;17:2639-2648.
39 Verma S, Miles D, Gianni L, et al. Trastuzumab emtansine for HER2-positive 51 Bartsch R, Wenzel C, Altorjai G, et al. Capecitabine and trastuzumab in heavily pretreated
advanced breast cancer [supplementary appendix available online]. N Engl J Med metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3853-3858.
2012;367:1783-1791. 52 Geyer C, Forster J, Lindquist D, et al. Lapatinib plus capecitabine for HER2-positive advanced
40 Modi S, Saura C, Yamashita T, et al. Trastuzumab deruxtecan in previously treated breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2006;355:2733-2743.
HER2-positive breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2020;382:610-621. 53 Blackwell KL, Burstein H, Storniolo A, et al. Randomized study of lapatinib alone or in
41 Robert N, Leyland-Jones B, Asmar L, et al. Randomized phase III study of combination with trastuzumab in women with ErbB2-positive, trastuzumab-refractory metastatic
trastuzumab, paclitaxel, and carboplatin compared with trastuzumab and paclitaxel breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1124-1130.
in women with HER-2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 54 Saura C, Oliveira M, Feng YH, et al. Neratinib plus capecitabine versus lapatinib plus
2006;24:2786-2792. capecitabine in patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer previously treated with
42 Perez EA, Suman VJ, Rowland KM, et al. Two concurrent phase II trials of ≥2 HER2-directed regimens: Findings from the multinational, randomized, phase 3 NALA trial.
paclitaxel/carboplatin/trastuzumab (weekly or every-3-week schedule) as first-line Presented at the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Annual Meeting. May 31-June
therapy in women with HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer: NCCTG 4, 2019; Chicago, IL. J Clin Oncol 2019;37(suppl): abstract 1002.
study 983252. Clin Breast Cancer 2005;6:425-432. 55 Rugo HS, Im S, Cardoso F, et al. Efficacy of margetuximab vs trastuzumab in patients with
pretreated ERBB2-positive advanced breast cancer. JAMA Oncol 2021;573-584.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
13 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
DOSING: TARGETED THERAPIES AND ASSOCIATED BIOMARKER TESTING
FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
• Alpelisib + fulvestrant 1 • Larotrectinib 7
Alpelisib 300 mg PO daily on days 1–28; fulvestrant 500 mg IM on 100 mg PO twice daily on days 1–28
days 1 and 15 Cycled every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
◊ 28-day cycle for 1 cycle
Followed by alpelisib 300 mg PO daily on days 1–28; fulvestrant 500 mg • Olaparib 8 tablet
IM on day 1 300 mg PO twice daily
◊ Cycled every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Cycled every 28 days
2
• Capivasertib + fulvestrant
Capivasertib 400 mg PO twice daily on days 1–4, 8–11, 15–18, 22–25 • Pembrolizumab 9-12
Fulvestrant 500 mg IM day 1 and day 15 200 mg IV on day 1, every 21 days until disease progression or
◊ Cycled every 28 days for 1 cycle unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months
Followed by or
Capivasertib 400 mg PO twice daily on days 1–4, 8–11, 15–18, 22–25 400 mg IV on day 1, every 6 weeks until disease progression or
Fulvestrant 500 mg IM day 1 starting with cycle 2 unacceptable toxicity, or up to 24 months
◊ Cycled every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity
• Pembrolizumab + chemotherapy (albumin-bound paclitaxel, paclitaxel,
• Dostarlimab-gxly 3 or gemcitabine and carboplatin)13
500 mg IV on day 1 Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV or 2mg/kg day 1 (given every 21 days)
◊ Cycled every 21 days for cycles 1–4  Albumin-bound paclitaxel 100 mg/m2 days 1, 8, 15 (given every 28 days)
Followed by 1000 mg IV on day 1 of cycle 5 OR
◊ Cycled every 42 days starting with cycle 5 Paclitaxel 90 mg/m2 IV days 1, 8, 15 (given every 28 days)
OR
• Elacestrant 4 Pembrolizumab 200 mg IV or 2mg/kg day 1
345 mg PO daily on days 1-28 Gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 8
Cycled every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Carboplatin AUC 2 IV days 1 and 8
◊ Given every 21 days
5
• Entrectinib
600 mg PO daily on days 1–28 • Repotrectinib 14
Cycled every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity 160 mg PO once daily on days 1–14, then 160 mg twice daily until disease
progression or unacceptable toxicity
6
• Inavolisib + palbociclib + fulvestrant 15
Inavolisib 9 mg PO daily on days 1–28 • Selpercatinib
Palbociclib 125 mg PO daily on days 1–21 Patients <50 kg: 120 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or
Fulvestrant 500 mg IM on days 1 and 15 unacceptable toxicity
◊ 28-day cycle for 1 cycle Patients ≥50 kg: 160 mg PO twice daily until disease progression or
Followed by unacceptable toxicity
Inavolisib 9 mg PO daily on days 1–28 16
Palbociclib 125 mg PO daily on days 1–21 • Talazoparib tablet
Fulvestrant 500 mg IM on day 1 1 mg PO daily
◊ 28-day cycle until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity Cycled every 28 days
The selection, dosing, and administration of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities are complex. Modifications of drug dose and schedule and initiation
of supportive care interventions are often necessary because of expected toxicities and individual patient variability, prior treatment, and comorbidity. The optimal delivery of
anti-cancer agents therefore requires a health care delivery team experienced in the use of anti-cancer agents and the management of associated toxicities in patients with References on
cancer.
BINV-Q 14 of 15
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
14 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
TARGETED THERAPIES AND ASSOCIATED BIOMARKER TESTING
FOR RECURRENT UNRESECTABLE (LOCAL OR REGIONAL) OR STAGE IV (M1) DISEASE
REFERENCES
1 Andre F, Ciruelos E, Rubovszky G, et al. Alpelisib for PIK3CA-mutated, hormone receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;380:1929-1940.
2 Turner NC, Oliveira M, Howell SJ, et al. Capivasertib in hormone receptor–positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2023;388:2058-2070.
3 Berton D, Banerjee S, Curigliano G, et al. Antitumor activity of dostarlimab in patients with mismatch repair–deficient (dMMR) tumors: a combined analysis of 2 cohorts
in the GARNET study. Poster presented at American Society for Clinical Oncology (ASCO), Virtual Meeting, June 4–8, 2021. [Abstract ID: 2564].
4 Bidard FC, Kaklamani V, Neven P, et al. Elacestrant (oral selective estrogen receptor degrader) versus standard endocrine therapy for estrogen receptor-positive,
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-negative advanced breast cancer: Results from the randomized phase III EMERALD trial. J Clin Oncol 2022;40:3246-3256.
5 Drilon A, Siena S, Ou SI, et al. Safety and antitumor activity of the multitargeted pan-TRK, ROS1, and ALK inhibitor entrectinib: Combined results from two phase I
trials (ALKA-372-001 and STARTRK-1). Cancer Discov 2017;7:400-409.
6 Turner NC, Im SA, Saura C, et al. Inavolisib-based therapy in PIK3CA-mutated advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2024;391:1584-1596.
7 Drilon A, Laetsch TW, Kummar W, et al. Efficacy of larotrectinib in TRK fusion-positive cancers in adults and children. N Engl J Med 2018;378:731-739.
8 Robson M, Im SA, Senkus E, et al. Olaparib for metastatic breast cancer in patients with a germline BRCA mutation. N Engl J Med 2017;377:523-533.
9 Le DT, Durham JN, Smith KN, et al. Mismatch repair deficiency predicts response of solid tumors to PD-1 blockade. Science 2017;357:409-413.
10 Le DT, Uram JN, Wang H, et al. PD-1 blockade in tumors with mismatch-repair deficiency. N Engl J Med 2015;372:2509-2520.
11 Lala M, Li TR, De Alwis DP, et al. A six-weekly dosing schedule for pembrolizumab in patients with cancer based on evaluation using modelling and simulation. Eur J
Cancer 2020;131:68-75.
12 Marabelle A, Fakih M, Lopez J, et al. Association of tumour mutational burden with outcomes in patients with advanced solid tumours treated with pembrolizumab:
prospective biomarker analysis of the multicohort, open-label, phase 2 KEYNOTE-158 study. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:1353-1365.
13 Cortes J, Cescon DW, Rugo HS, et al. Pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy versus placebo plus chemotherapy for previously untreated locally recurrent inoperable or
metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (KEYNOTE-355): a randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase 3 clinical trial. Lancet 2020;396:1817-1828.
14 Solomon BJ, Drilon A, Lin JJ, et al. Repotrectinib in patients with NTRK fusion-positive advanced solid tumors, including non-small cell lung cancer: Update from the
phase 1/2 TRIDENT-1 trial [abstract]. Ann Oncol 2023;34:Abstract 1372P.
15 Subbiah V, Wolf J, Konda B, et al. Tumour-agnostic efficacy and safety of selpercatinib in patients with RET fusion-positive solid tumours other than lung or thyroid
tumours (LIBRETTO-001): a phase 1/2, open-label, basket trial. Lancet Oncol 2022;23:1261-1273.
16 Litton J, Rugo H, Ettl J, et al. Talazoparib in patients with advanced breast cancer and a germline BRCA mutation. N Engl J Med 2018;379:753-763.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-Q
15 OF 15
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MONITORING METASTATIC DISEASE
Monitoring of patient symptoms and cancer burden during treatment of metastatic breast cancer is important to determine whether the
treatment is providing benefit and that the patient does not have toxicity from an ineffective therapy.
Components of Monitoring
Monitoring includes periodic assessment of varied combinations of symptoms, physical examination, routine laboratory tests, imaging
studies, and blood biomarkers where appropriate. Results of monitoring are classified as response/continued response to treatment, stable
disease, uncertainty regarding disease status, or progression of disease. The clinician typically must assess and balance multiple different
forms of information to make a determination regarding whether disease is being controlled and the toxicity of treatment is acceptable.
Sometimes, this information may be contradictory. Clinicians should take into account patient preferences through a shared decision-making
process.
Definition of Disease Progression
Unequivocal evidence of progression of disease by one or more of these factors is required to establish progression of disease, either
because of ineffective therapy or acquired resistance of disease to an applied therapy. Progression of disease may be identified through
evidence of growth or worsening of disease at previously known sites of disease and/or of the occurrence of new sites of metastatic disease.
• Findings concerning for progression of disease include:
Worsening symptoms such as pain or dyspnea
Evidence of worsening or new disease on physical examination
Declining performance status
Unexplained weight loss
Increasing alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate transaminase (AST), or bilirubin
Hypercalcemia
New radiographic abnormality or increase in the size of pre-existing radiographic abnormality
New areas of abnormality on functional imaging (eg, bone scan, PET/CT)
Increasing tumor markers (eg, carcinoembryonic antigen [CEA], CA 15-3, CA 27.29)a
a Rising tumor markers (eg, CEA, CA 15-3, CA 27.29) are concerning for tumor progression, but may also be seen in the setting of responding disease. An isolated
increase in tumor markers should rarely be used to declare progression of disease. Changes in bone lesions are often difficult to assess on plain or cross-sectional
radiology or on bone scan. For these reasons, patient symptoms and serum tumor markers may be more helpful in patients with bone-dominant metastatic disease.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-R
1 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MONITORING METASTATIC DISEASE
Use of Objective Criteria for Response/Stability/Progression
• The most accurate assessments of disease activity typically occur when previously abnormal studies are repeated on a serial and regular
basis. Generally, the same method of assessment should be used over time (eg, an abnormality found on chest CT should generally be
monitored with repeat chest CT).
• Some non-clinically important variation in measurement of abnormalities by all serial studies is common and expected. Therefore, the use
of objective and widely accepted criteria for response, stability, and progression of disease are encouraged. Such systems include the
Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines (Eisenhauer EA, Therasse P, Bogaerts J, et al. New response evaluation
criteria in solid tumours: revised RECIST guideline [version 1.1]. Eur J Cancer 2009;45:228-247) and the WHO criteria (Miller AB, Hoogstraten
B, Staquet M, Winkler A. Reporting results of cancer treatment. Cancer 1981;47:207-214).
• Studies of functional imaging, such as radionuclide bone scans and PET imaging, are particularly challenging when used to assess
response. In the case of bone scans, responding disease may result in a flare or increased activity on the scan that may be misinterpreted
as disease progression, especially on the first follow-up bone scan after initiating a new therapy. PET imaging is challenging because of the
absence of a reproducible, validated, and widely accepted set of standards for disease activity assessment.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-R
2 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Invasive Breast Cancer
Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MONITORING METASTATIC DISEASE
Frequency of Monitoring
The optimal frequency of repeat testing is uncertain, and is primarily based on the monitoring strategies utilized in breast cancer clinical
trials. The frequency of monitoring must balance the need to detect progressive disease, avoid unnecessary toxicity of any ineffective therapy,
resource utilization, and determine cost. The following table is to provide guidance, and should be modified for the individual patient based
on sites of disease, biology of disease, and treatment regimen. Reassessment of disease activity should be performed in patients with new or
worsening signs or symptoms of disease, regardless of the time interval from previous studies.
Suggested Intervals of Follow-up for Patients with Metastatic Diseaseb
Baseline Prior to New Chemotherapy or Endocrine Therapy Restaging if Concern for
Therapy Targeted Therapy Alone or in Combination Progression of Disease
with CDK 4/6 Inhibitor or
Other Targeted Therapy
Symptom Assessment Yes Prior to each cycle Every 1–3 months Yes
Physical Examination Yes Prior to each cycle Every 1–3 months Yes
Performance Status Yes Prior to each cycle Every 1–3 months Yes
Weight Yes Prior to each cycle Every 1–3 months Yes
LFTs, CBC Yes Prior to each cycle, as Every 1–3 months Yes
indicated
CT Chest/Abdomen/ Yes Every 2–4 cycles Every 2–6 months Yes
Pelvis with Contrast
Bone Scan Yes Every 4–6 cycles Every 2–6 months Yes
PET/CT As clinically indicated As clinically indicated As clinically indicated As clinically indicated
Tumor Markers As clinically indicated As clinically indicated As clinically indicated As clinically indicated
Brain MRI with As clinically indicated As clinically indicated As clinically indicated As clinically indicated
contrast
b In patients who have long-term stable disease, the frequency of monitoring can be reduced.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
BINV-R
3 OF 3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Phyllodes Tumor
Discussion
CLINICAL WORKUP CORE BIOPSY TREATMENT SURVEILLANCE
PRESENTATION RESULTS
Fibroadenoma Observe
Indeterminate Clinical
or suspicious Excisional Benign phyllodesb,f follow-up for
biopsyc
for a benign 3 y (no RT)
phyllodesb
Follow
Clinical suspicion of Phyllodes, borderline
pathway
phyllodes: or malignantb,f
below
• Palpable mass
• Rapid growth
• History and Suspicious
• Large size (>3 cm) Wide excisiond
physical exam for Clinical
• Imaging with Core needle without axillary Phyllodes, borderline
• Ultrasound borderline/ follow-up for
ultrasound biopsya staging or malignantb,f
• Mammogram for malignant 3 yg
suggestive of + consider RTe
patients ≥30 y phyllodesb
fibroadenoma
except for size
and/or history of
growth
Invasive or See NCCN Guidelines for Noninvasive Breast Cancer
in situ cancer for DCIS (DCIS-1) or Invasive Breast Cancer (BINV-1)
a FNA or core biopsy may not distinguish a fibroadenoma from a phyllodes
tumor in some cases. The sensitivity of core biopsy for the diagnosis
of phyllodes tumor is greater than that of FNA biopsy, but neither core
biopsy nor FNA biopsy can always differentiate phyllodes tumors from e There are no prospective randomized data supporting the use of RT for phyllodes
fibroadenomas. In cases with clinical suspicion for phyllodes tumor, tumors. However, in the setting where additional recurrence would create
excision of the lesion may be needed for definitive pathologic classification. significant morbidity (eg, chest wall recurrence following mastectomy), RT may be
b Genetic counseling and testing if patient is at risk for hereditary cancer considered following the same principles that are applied to the treatment of soft-
syndromes, particularly breast, ovarian, and pancreatic cancer. tissue sarcoma.
c Excisional biopsy includes complete mass removal, but without the intent f The Panel endorses the College of American Pathologists Protocol for
of obtaining surgical margins. standardized pathology reporting for all phyllodes tumors (https://documents.cap.
d For borderline or malignant phyllodes tumors, wide excision means org/protocols/Breast.Phyllodes_1.1.0.1.REL_CAPCP.pdf).
excision with the intention of obtaining surgical margins ≥1 cm. Narrow g Borderline and malignant phyllodes tumors are high-risk for local recurrence
surgical margins are associated with heightened local recurrence risk, but and heightened imaging should be considered to include ultrasound every 6
are not an absolute indication for mastectomy when partial mastectomy months after BCS for 2 years, then annually through 5 years, in addition to annual
fails to achieve a margin width ≥1 cm. mammograms (as age appropriate).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
PHYLL-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Phyllodes Tumor
Discussion
PHYLLODES TUMOR RECURRENCE
CLINICAL PRESENTATION WORKUP FINDINGS TREATMENT
Re-excision with wide Consider post-
No metastatic
margins without axillary operative radiation
• History and physical disease staging (category 2B)e
exam
• Ultrasound
Locally recurrent breast • Mammogram
mass following excision • Tissue samplinga
of phyllodes tumor (histology preferred)
• Consider chest
imaging (x-ray or CT,
CT contrast optional) Metastatic Follow principles of soft-tissue sarcoma
disease (See NCCN Guidelines for Soft Tissue Sarcoma)
a FNA or core biopsy may not distinguish a fibroadenoma from a phyllodes tumor in some cases. The sensitivity of core biopsy for the diagnosis of phyllodes tumor is
greater than that of FNA biopsy, but neither core biopsy nor FNA biopsy can always differentiate phyllodes tumors from fibroadenomas. In cases with clinical suspicion
for phyllodes tumor, excision of the lesion may be needed for definitive pathologic classification.
e There are no prospective randomized data supporting the use of RT for phyllodes tumors. However, in the setting where additional recurrence would create significant
morbidity (eg, chest wall recurrence following mastectomy), RT may be considered following the same principles that are applied to the treatment of soft tissue
sarcoma.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
PHYLL-2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Paget Disease
Discussion
CLINICAL WORKUP
PRESENTATION
Examination or imaging
positive for breast lesion
• Clinical breast exam
Clinical suspicion
of Paget diseasea • Diagnostic bilateral mammogram, PAGET-2
ultrasound as necessary
Examination and imaging
negative for breast lesion
a Nipple or areolar eczema, ulceration, bleeding, or itching.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
PAGET-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Paget Disease
Discussion
WORKUP TREATMENT
Breast and NAC Clinical follow-up
biopsy negative Re-biopsy if not healing
Breast DCIS See NCCN Guidelines for Noninvasive Breast
and NAC Paget Cancer for DCIS (DCIS-1)
Core biopsy of
Examination
breast lesion and
or imaging
full-thickness skin
positive for
biopsy of involved
breast lesion Appropriate
NAC
systemic
adjuvant therapy
Breast invasive cancer See NCCN Guidelines for Invasive Breast as clinically
and NAC Paget Cancer (BINV-1) indicated
See NCCN
Central lumpectomy including NAC
Guidelines for
Breast negative for
with whole breast RT
DCIS or Invasive
cancer and positive
Consider or
Breast Cancer
NAC Paget breast MRIb Total mastectomyc ± SLNB with or
and tissue without breast reconstruction
sampling or
NAC biopsy positive
Central lumpectomy including NAC
for Paget
± SLNB without RT (category 2B)
Examination
Full-thickness
and imaging
skin biopsy of
negative for
involved NAC
breast lesion
NAC biopsy Clinical follow-up
negative for Paget Re-biopsy if not healing
b Principles of Dedicated Breast MRI Testing (BINV-B).
c Mastectomy is always an option with any manifestation of Paget disease (Discussion).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
PAGET-2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NNCCCCNN GGuuiiddeelliinneess VVeerrssiioonn 44..22002255 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
BBrreeaasstt CCaanncceerr During Pregnancy
Discussion
WORKUP CLINICAL PRESENTATION PRIMARY TREATMENTb ADJUVANT TREATMENTd
Begin adjuvant
chemotherapy in second
First Discuss Continuing Mastectomye + trimesterd
termination:
trimester pregnancy axillary stagingb,c ± RT postpartum
Non-therapeutic
± Adjuvant endocrine
therapy postpartum
If indicateda:
• Chest x-ray Adjuvant chemotherapyd
(with abdominal ± RT postpartum
Mastectomy or BCSe + axillary
shielding) ± Adjuvant endocrine
If pregnant stagingb,c
• Abdominal therapy postpartum
with
ultrasound to
confirmed or
assess liver Second trimester/
breast cancer;
metastases Early third trimester
No distant Preoperative chemotherapy,d ± RT postpartum
• Consider
metastases mastectomy, or BCSe + axillary ± Adjuvant endocrine
non-contrast
on staging stagingb,c therapy postpartum
MRI of spine
if indicated to
assess for bone
metastases Adjuvant chemotherapyd
± RT postpartum
Late third Mastectomyf or BCSe + axillary
± Adjuvant endocrine
trimester stagingb,c
therapy postpartum
a CT scans and nuclear imaging are contraindicated during pregnancy.
b Considerations and selection of optimal local therapy and systemic therapy are similar to d There are limited data on the use of taxanes during pregnancy. The
that recommended in non–pregnancy-associated breast cancer; see other sections of this optimal schedule is unclear. If used, the NCCN Panel recommends
guideline. However, the selection and timing of chemotherapy, endocrine therapy, and RT weekly administration of paclitaxel after the first trimester if clinically
is different if pregnant. BCS during the first trimester of pregnancy can be considered in indicated by disease status. The use of anti-HER2 therapy is
those who will require adjuvant chemotherapy and can have adjuvant radiation therapy contraindicated during pregnancy.
delayed until after delivery. Chemotherapy should not be administered during the first e Survival outcomes of BCT are equivalent to mastectomy in both
trimester of pregnancy, and RT should not be administered during any trimester of non-pregnancy and pregnancy-associated BCs. Therapeutic RT
pregnancy. Coordination is recommended between the oncology and obstetrics teams is generally avoided during pregnancy due to potential risks to
to plan the optimal timing of systemic therapy administration during pregnancy. Most the fetus. Mastectomy may be preferred, particularly for early (1st
experience with chemotherapy during pregnancy for breast cancer is from regimens trimester) gestational diagnosis, as early BCS may preclude timely
that utilize various combinations of doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and fluorouracil. administration of RT. Generally, intervals of 12–16 weeks between
Considerations for postpartum chemotherapy are the same as for non–pregnancy- treatment modalities (surgery, RT, and chemotherapy) are considered
associated breast cancer. acceptable.
c Use of blue dye is contraindicated in pregnancy; radiolabeled sulfur colloid appears to be f If late first trimester, may consider preoperative chemotherapy in the
safe for SLNB in pregnancy. See Considerations for Surgical Axillary Staging (BINV-D). second trimester.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
PREG-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Inflammatory Breast Cancer
Discussion
CLINICAL WORKUP
PRESENTATIONa
• History and physical exam by multidisciplinary team and
obtain medical photography
• CBC
• Comprehensive metabolic panel, including LFTs and
alkaline phosphatase
• Pathology reviewb
• Determination of tumor ER/PR status and HER2 statusc
• Fertility counseling if premenopausald
Clinical Preoperative/Adjuvant
• Genetic counseling if patient is at riske for hereditary breast
pathologic Therapy Regimens See IBC-2
diagnosis of IBC
cancer (BINV-L)h
• Imaging:
Bilateral diagnostic mammogram, ultrasound as necessary
Chest diagnostic CT ± contrast
Abdomen ± pelvis diagnostic CT with contrast or MRI with
contrast
Bone scan or FDG-PET/CTf,g
Breast MRI (optional)
a IBC is characterized by:
1) Rapid onset (≤6 months) of erythema, edema, p'eau d'orange occupying ≥1/3 of the breast, with or without a palpable mass.
2) Pathologic confirmation of invasive breast cancer.
3) Dermal lymphatic involvement may be seen but is not required for the diagnosis.
b The panel endorses the College of American Pathologists Protocol for pathology reporting for all invasive and noninvasive carcinomas of the breast.
http://www.cap.org.
c Principles of Biomarker Testing (BINV-A).
d Fertility and Birth Control (BINV-C).
e For risk criteria, see NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, and Pancreatic, and Prostate.
f If FDG-PET/CT is performed and clearly indicates bone metastasis on both the PET and CT component, bone scan or sodium fluoride PET/CT may not be needed.
g FDG-PET/CT can be performed at the same time as diagnostic CT. FDG-PET/CT is most helpful in situations where standard staging studies are equivocal or
suspicious. FDG-PET/CT may also be helpful in identifying unsuspected regional nodal disease and/or distant metastases when used in addition to standard staging
studies.
h A pertuzumab-containing regimen may be administered preoperatively to patients with HER2-positive IBC.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
IBC-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Inflammatory Breast Cancer
Discussion
RESPONSE TO TREATMENTj
PREOPERATIVE
THERAPY
• Complete planned chemotherapy regimen course
if not completed preoperatively plus endocrine
Total mastectomy + level l/ll axillary
treatment if ER-positive and/or PR-positive (sequential
dissection + RT to chest wall and chemotherapy followed by endocrine therapy).m
Responsei comprehensive RNI with inclusion of
• Complete up to one year of HER2-targeted therapy
any portion of the undissected axilla at
if HER2-positive (category 1). May be administered
risk ± delayed breast reconstructionk concurrently with RTn and with endocrine therapy if
indicated.
Patients may be candidates
for multiple lines of
systemic therapy to palliate
advanced breast cancer.
At each reassessment Responsei See above pathway
Consider
clinicians should assess
additional systemic
No value of ongoing treatment,
chemotherapyl and/
responsei the risks and benefits
or preoperative
of an additional line of
radiation.
systemic therapy, patient No responsei Individualized treatment
performance status,
and patient preferences
through a shared decision-
making process.
i The accurate assessment of in-breast tumor or regional lymph node response to preoperative systemic therapy is difficult, and should include physical examination and
performance of imaging studies (mammogram and/or breast ultrasound and/or breast MRI) that were abnormal at the time of initial tumor staging. Selection of imaging
methods prior to surgery should be determined by the multidisciplinary team. MRI is more accurate than mammography for assessing tumor response to preoperative
therapy.
j Patients with recurrent IBC should be treated according to the guideline for recurrence/stage IV (M1) disease (BINV-19).
k Principles of Breast Reconstruction Following Surgery (BINV-H).
l Systemic Therapy Regimens for Recurrent Unresectable (Local or Regional) or Stage IV (M1) Disease (BINV-Q).
m Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy (BINV-K).
n Principles of Radiation Therapy (BINV-I).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
IBC-2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC)
TNM Staging System For Breast Cancer
Primary Tumor (T) The T category of the primary tumor is defined by the same criteria regardless of whether it is based on clinical or pathological criteria, or both. The
T category is based primarily on the size of the invasive component of the cancer. The maximum size of a tumor focus is used as an estimate of disease volume. The
largest contiguous dimension of a tumor focus is used, and small satellite foci of noncontiguous tumor are not added to the size. The cellular fibrous reaction to invasive
tumor cells is generally included in the measurement of a tumor prior to treatment; however, the dense fibrosis observed following neoadjuvant treatment is generally
not included in the pathological measurement because its extent may overestimate the residual tumor volume. The clinical size of a primary tumor (T) can be measured
based on clinical findings (physical examination and imaging modalities, such as mammography, ultrasound, and MR imaging) and pathological findings (gross and
microscopic measurements). Clinical tumor size (cT) should be based on the clinical findings that are judged to be most accurate for a particular case, although it may
still be somewhat inaccurate because the intent of some breast cancers is not always apparent with current imaging techniques and because tumors are composed of
varying proportions of noninvasive and invasive disease, which these techniques are currently unable to distinguish. Size should be measured to the nearest millimeter.
If the tumor size is slightly less than or greater than a cutoff for a given T classification the size should be rounded to the millimeter reading that is closest to the cutoff.
For example, a reported size of 4.9 mm is reported as 5 mm, or a size of 2.04 cm is reported as 2.0 cm (20 mm). The exception to this rounding rule is for a breast
tumor sized between 1.0 and 1.4 mm. These sizes are rounded up to 2 mm, because rounding down would result in the cancer’s being categorized as microinvasive
carcinoma (T1mi) defined as a size of 1.0 mm or less.
Table 1. Definitions for T, N, M
T2 Tumor >20 mm but ≤50 mm in greatest dimension
TX Primary tumor cannot be assessed
T3 Tumor >50 mm in greatest dimension
T0 No evidence of primary tumor
T4 Tumor of any size with direct extension to the chest wall and/
Tis Ductal carcinoma in situ or to the skin (ulceration or macroscopic nodules); invasion
(DCIS)* of the dermis alone does not qualify as T4
Tis Paget disease of the nipple NOT associated with invasive T4a Extension to the chest wall; invasion or adherence to
(Paget) carcinoma and/or carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in the underlying pectoralis muscle in the absence of invasion of chest wall
breast parenchyma. Carcinomas in the breast parenchyma structures does not qualify as T4
associated with Paget disease are categorized based on
T4b Ulceration and/or ipsilateral macroscopic satellite nodules
the size and characteristics of the parenchymal disease,
and/or edema (including peau d’orange) of the skin that does
although the presence of Paget disease should still be noted
not meet the criteria for inflammatory carcinoma
T1 Tumor ≤20 mm in greatest dimension
T4c Both T4a and T4b are present
T1mi Tumor ≤1 mm in greatest dimension
T4d Inflammatory carcinoma
T1a Tumor >1 mm but ≤5 mm in greatest dimension
(round any measurement >1.0–1.9 mm to 2 mm) *Note: Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is a benign entity and is
removed from TNM staging in the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 8th
T1b Tumor >5 mm but ≤10 mm in greatest dimension
Edition.
T1c Tumor >10 mm but ≤20 mm in greatest dimension
Continued
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 1. Definitions for T, N, M (continued) Pathologic (pN)
Regional Lymph Nodes (N)
pNX Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed (e.g., not
Clinical (cN) removed for pathological study or previously removed)
cNX* Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed (e.g., previously
pN0 No regional lymph node metastasis identified or ITCs only
removed)
pN0(i+) ITCs only (malignant cells clusters no larger than 0.2 mm)
cN0 No regional lymph node metastases (by imaging or clinical
in regional lymph node(s)
examination)
pN0(mol+) Positive molecular findings by reverse transcriptase
cN1 Metastases to movable ipsilateral level I, II axillary lymph node(s)
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR); no ITCs detected
pN1 Micrometastases; or metastases in 1–3 axillary lymph
cN1mi** Micrometastases (approximately 200 cells, larger than 0.2 mm, but
none larger than 2.0 mm) nodes; and/or in clinically negative internal mammary
nodes with micrometastases or macrometastases by
cN2 Metastases in ipsilateral level I, II axillary lymph nodes that are
sentinel lymph node biopsy
clinically fixed or matted;
or in ipsilateral internal mammary nodes in the absence of axillary pN1mi Micrometastases (approximately 200 cells, larger than
lymph node metastases 0.2 mm, but none larger than 2.0 mm)
cN2a Metastases in ipsilateral level I, II axillary lymph nodes fixed to one pN1a Metastases in 1–3 axillary lymph nodes, at least one
another (matted) or to other structures metastasis larger than 2.0 mm
cN2b Metastases only in ipsilateral internal mammary nodes in the
pN1b Metastases in ipsilateral internal mammary sentinel
absence of axillary lymph node metastases
nodes, excluding ITCs
cN3 Metastases in ipsilateral infraclavicular (level III axillary) lymph
pN1c pN1a and pN1b combined.
node(s) with or without level I, II axillary lymph node involvement;
or in ipsilateral internal mammary lymph node(s) with level I, II pN2 Metastases in 4–9 axillary lymph nodes; or positive
axillary lymph node metastases; ipsilateral internal mammary lymph nodes by imaging in
or metastases in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node(s) with or the absence of axillary lymph node metastases
without axillary or internal mammary lymph node involvement
pN2a Metastases in 4–9 axillary lymph nodes (at least one
cN3a Metastases in ipsilateral infraclavicular lymph node(s)
tumor deposit larger than 2.0 mm)
cN3b Metastases in ipsilateral internal mammary lymph node(s) and
pN2b Metastases in clinically detected internal mammary lymph
axillary lymph node(s)
nodes with or without microscopic confirmation; with
cN3c Metastases in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph node(s) pathologically negative axillary nodes
Note: (sn) and (f) suffixes should be added to the N category to denote
confirmation of metastasis by sentinel node biopsy or fine needle aspiration/core
needle biopsy respectively.
*The cNX category is used sparingly in cases where regional lymph nodes have
previously been surgically removed or where there is no documentation of physical
examination of the axilla.
**cN1mi is rarely used but may be appropriate in cases where sentinel node
biopsy is performed before tumor resection, most likely to occur in cases treated Continued
with neoadjuvant therapy.
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-2
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 1. Definitions for T, N, M (continued) Table 2. AJCC Anatomic Stage Groups
Pathologic (pN)
The Anatomic Stage Group table should only be used in global regions where
pN3 Metastases in 10 or more axillary lymph nodes;
or in infraclavicular (level III axillary) lymph nodes; biomarker tests are not routinely available.
or positive ipsilateral internal mammary lymph nodes by Cancer registries in the U.S. must use the Clinical and Pathological Prognostic
imaging in the presence of one or more positive level I, II Stage Group tables for case reporting.
axillary lymph nodes;
or in more than three axillary lymph nodes and Stage 0 Tis N0 M0 Stage IIIA T0 N2 M0
micrometastases or macrometastases by sentinel lymph Stage IA T1 N0 M0 T1 N2 M0
node biopsy in clinically negative ipsilateral internal
mammary lymph nodes; Stage IB T0 N1mi M0 T2 N2 M0
or in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph nodes
T1 N1mi M0 T3 N1 M0
pN3a Metastases in 10 or more axillary lymph nodes (at least Stage IIA T0 N1 M0 T3 N2 M0
one tumor deposit larger than 2.0 mm);
or metastases to the infraclavicular (level III axillary T1 N1 M0 Stage IIIB T4 N0 M0
lymph) nodes T2 N0 M0 T4 N1 M0
pN3b pN1a or pN2a in the presence of cN2b (positive internal Stage IIB T2 N1 M0 T4 N2 M0
mammary nodes by imaging);
or pN2a in the presence of pN1b T3 N0 M0 Stage IIIC Any T N3 M0
pN3c Metastases in ipsilateral supraclavicular lymph nodes Stage IV Any T Any N M1
Notes:
Note: (sn) and (f) suffixes should be added to the N category to denote 1. T1 includes T1mi.
confirmation of metastasis by sentinel node biopsy or FNA/core needle 2. T0 and T1 tumors with nodal micrometastases (N1mi) are staged as Stage IB.
biopsy respectively, with NO further resection of nodes 3. T2, T3, and T4 tumors with nodal micrometastases (N1mi) are staged using
Distant Metastasis (M) the N1 category.
4. M0 includes M0(i+).
M0 No clinical or radiographic evidence of distant
5. The designation pM0 is not valid; any M0 is clinical.
metastases*
6. If a patient presents with M1 disease prior to neoadjuvant systemic therapy, the
cM0(i+) No clinical or radiographic evidence of distant stage is considered Stage IV and remains Stage IV regardless of response to
metastases in the presence of tumor cells or deposits neoadjuvant therapy.
no larger than 0.2 mm detected microscopically or by 7. Stage designation may be changed if postsurgical imaging studies reveal the
molecular techniques in circulating blood, bone marrow,
presence of distant metastases, provided the studies are performed within 4
or other nonregional nodal tissue in a patient without
months of diagnosis in the absence of disease progression, and provided the
symptoms or signs of metastases
patient has not received neoadjuvant therapy.
cM1 Distant metastases detected by clinical and radiographic 8. Staging following neoadjuvant therapy is designated with “yc” or “yp” prefix
means to the T and N classification. There is no anatomic stage group assigned if
there is a complete pathological response (pCR) to neoadjuvant therapy, for
pM1 Any histologically proven metastases in distant organs;
or if in non-regional nodes, metastases greater than 0.2 example, ypT0ypN0cM0.
mm
Continued
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-3
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 2. AJCC Anatomic Stage Groups (continued)
Histologic Grade (G)
All invasive breast carcinomas should be assigned a histologic grade. The
Nottingham combined histologic grade (Nottingham modification of the SBR
grading system) is recommended and is stipulated for use by the College of
American Pathologists (see www.cap.org). The grade for a tumor is determined
by assessing morphologic features (tubule formation, nuclear pleomorphism, and
calibrated mitotic count), assigning a value from 1 (favorable) to 3 (unfavorable)
for each feature, and totaling the scores for all three categories. A combined score
of 3–5 points is designated as grade 1; a combined score of 6–7 points is grade 2;
a combined score of 8–9 points is grade 3. The use of subjective grading alone is
discouraged.
Invasive Cancer (Scarff-Bloom-Richardson [SBR] Grading System,
Nottingham Modification)
GX Grade cannot be assessed
G1 Low combined histologic grade (favorable);
SBR score of 3–5 points
G2 Intermediate combined histologic grade (moderately favorable); SBR
score of 6–7 points
G3 High combined histologic grade (unfavorable);
SBR score of 8–9 points
Ductal Carcinoma in situ: Nuclear Grade
The grade that should be used for ductal carcinoma in situ is nuclear grade
(www.cap.org)
GX Grade cannot be assessed
G1 Low nuclear grade
G2 Intermediate nuclear grade
G3 High nuclear grade
Continued
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-4
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Histopathologic Type - WHO Classification 5th Edition (2019)
In situ carcinomas Favorable Histologic Types
D uctal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) (low nuclear grade, intermediate nuclear grade, and Tubular carcinoma
high nuclear grade)
Cribriform carcinoma
In situ papillary neoplasms (papillary DCIS, encapsulated papillary carcinoma, solid
Mucinous carcinoma
papillary carcinoma in situ)
Adenoid cystic
Invasive Carcinomas
Low-grade adenosquamous carcinoma metaplastic carcinoma
In vasive breast carcinoma of no special type (ductal and other special patterns)
Low-grade fibromatosis-like metaplastic carcinoma
Microinvasive carcinoma
Invasive lobular carcinoma
Tubular carcinoma
Cribriform carcinoma
Mucinous carcinoma
Mucinous cystadenocarcinoma
Invasive micropapillary carcinoma
Invasive papillary carcinoma
Invasive solid papillary carcinoma
Carcinoma with apocrine differentiation
Me taplastic carcinoma (spindle cell, squamous, with heterologous differentiation,
low-grade adenosquamous carcinoma, low-grade fibromatosis-like and mixed
metaplastic)
Neuroendocrine tumor (NET)
Neuroendocrine carcinoma (NEC)
Sa livary gland-type (acinic cell, adenoid cystic, secretory, mucoepidermoid,
polymorphous adenocarcinoma)
Tall cell carcinoma with reversed polarity
Continued
WHO Classification of Tumors Editorial Board, ed. WHO Classification of Tumors, 5th Edition – Breast Tumors. Lyon: International Agency for Research on Cancer 2019.
ST-5
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 3. Clinical Prognostic Stage
Clinical Prognostic Stage applies to ALL patients with breast cancer for clinical classification and staging. It uses clinical tumor (T), node (N) and
metastases (M) information based on history, physical examination, any imaging performed (not necessary for clinical staging) and relevant biopsies.
Genomic profile information is not included in Clinical Prognostic Stage as pathologic information from surgery is necessary to ascertain the prognosis
using these tools.
TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage
Tis N0 M0 Any Any Any Any 0 T0 N1** M0 Positive IB
Positive
T1* N1** M0
T1* N0 M0 Positive Negative
Positive T2 N0 M0 Positive
T0 N1mi M0
Negative Positive IIA
T1* N1mi M0 Positive Negative
Positive Negative
Negative G1
Negative IA Positive IB
G1 Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Negative
Negative Positive IIA
Negative Negative
Positive Negative
Negative
Negative IB Positive IB
Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Positive
Negative Positive IIA
Positive Negative
Positive Negative
Negative G2
Negative IA Positive IB
G2 Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Negative IIA
Negative Positive
Negative Negative
Positive Negative IIB
Negative
Negative IB Positive IB
Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Positive
Negative Positive
Positive Negative IIA
Positive IA Negative
Negative G3
Negative Positive
G3 Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Negative
Negative Positive IIB
Negative Negative
Positive IB Negative
Negative
Negative Continued
*T1 includes T1mi.
**N1 does not include N1mi. T1 N1mi M0 and T0 N1mi M0 cancers are included for prognostic staging with T1 N0 M0 cancers of the same prognostic factor status.
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-6
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 3. Clinical Prognostic Stage (continued)
TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage
T2 N1*** M0 Positive IB T0 N2 M0 Positive IIA
T3 N0 M0 Positive T1* N2 M0 Positive
Negative Negative
Positive IIA T2 N2 M0 Positive
Positive T3 N1*** M0 Positive IIIA
Negative Negative
T3 N2 M0
Negative IIB Negative
G1 G1
Positive IIA Positive IIA
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative Negative IIIA
Positive IIB Positive
Negative Negative
Negative Negative IIIB
Positive IB Positive IIA
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Positive IIA Positive
Positive Positive IIIA
Negative Negative
Negative IIB Negative
G2 G2
Positive IIA Positive IIA
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative IIB Negative IIIA
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative IIIB Negative IIIB
Positive IB Positive IIB
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Positive Positive
Positive Positive
Negative IIB Negative IIIA
Negative Negative
G3 G3
Positive Positive
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative IIIA Negative IIIB
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative IIIB Negative IIIC
Continued
*T1 includes T1mi.
***N1 includes N1mi. T2, T3, and T4 cancers and N1mi are included for prognostic staging with T2 N1, T3 N1 and T4 N1, respectively.
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-7
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 3. Clinical Prognostic Stage (continued)
Notes:
TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage
1. Because N1mi categorization requires evaluation of the entire node, and cannot
T4 N0 M0 Positive IIIA be assigned on the basis of an FNA or core biopsy, N1mi can only be used
Positive
T4 N1*** M0 Negative with Clinical Prognostic Staging when clinical staging is based on a resected
T4 N2 M0 Positive lymph node in the absence of resection of the primary cancer, such as the
Any T N3 M0 Positive situation where sentinel node biopsy is performed prior to receipt of neoadjuvant
Negative
Negative chemotherapy or endocrine therapy.
G1 IIIB
2. For cases with lymph node involvement with no evidence of primary tumor (e.g.
Positive
Positive T0 N1, etc.) or with breast ductal carcinoma in situ (e.g. Tis N1, etc.), the grade,
Negative HER2, ER, and PR information from the tumor in the lymph node should be used
Negative
Positive for assigning stage group.
Negative 3. For cases where HER2 is determined to be “equivocal” by ISH (FISH or CISH)
Negative IIIC
testing under the 2013 ASCO/CAP HER2 testing guidelines, the HER2 “negative”
Positive IIIA category should be used for staging in the Clinical Prognostic Stage Group.
Positive
4. The prognostic value of these Prognostic Stage Groups is based on populations
Negative
Positive of persons with breast cancer that have been offered and mostly treated with
Positive appropriate endocrine and/or systemic chemotherapy (including anti-HER2
Negative
Negative therapy).
G2 IIIB
Positive
Positive
Negative
Negative
Positive
Negative
Negative IIIC
Positive
Positive
Negative
Positive
Positive IIIB
Negative
Negative
G3
Positive
Positive
Negative
Negative
Positive IIIC
Negative
Negative
Any T Any N M1 Any Any Any Any IV
Continued
***N1 includes N1mi. T2, T3, and T4 cancers and N1mi are included for prognostic staging with T2 N1, T3 N1 and T4 N1, respectively.
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-8
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 4. Pathological Prognostic Stage
Pathological Prognostic Stage applies to patients with breast cancer treated with surgery as the initial treatment. It includes all information used for
clinical staging plus findings at surgery and pathological findings from surgical resection. Pathological Prognostic Stage does not apply to patients treated
with systemic or radiation prior to surgical resection (neoadjuvant therapy).
TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage
Tis N0 M0 Any Any Any Any 0 T0 N1** M0 Positive IA
Positive
T1* N1** M0
T1* N0 M0 Positive Negative
Positive T2 N0 M0 Positive IB
T0 N1mi M0
Negative Positive
T1* N1mi M0 Positive Negative
Positive Negative IIA
Negative G1
Negative Positive IA
G1 Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Negative IB
Negative Positive
Negative Negative
Positive Negative IIA
Negative
Negative IA Positive IA
Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Positive IB
Negative Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Negative IIA
Negative G2
Negative Positive IA
G2 Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Negative
Negative Positive IIA
Negative Negative
Positive Negative
Negative
Negative IB Positive IA
Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Positive
Negative Positive IIA
Positive Negative
Positive Negative
Negative G3
Negative IA Positive IB
G3 Positive
Positive Negative
Positive Negative
Negative Positive IIA
Negative Negative
Positive Negative
Negative
Negative IB
Continued
*T1 includes T1mi.
**N1 does not include N1mi. T1 N1mi M0 and T0 N1mi M0 cancers are included for prognostic staging with T1 N0 M0 cancers of the same prognostic factor status.
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-9
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 4. Pathological Prognostic Stage (continued)
TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage
T2 N1*** M0 Positive IA T0 N2 M0 Positive IB
T3 N0 M0 Positive T1* N2 M0 Positive
Negative Negative
Positive T2 N2 M0 Positive
Positive IIB T3 N1*** M0 Positive IIIA
Negative Negative
T3 N2 M0
Negative Negative
G1 G1
Positive IA Positive IB
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative Negative
Positive IIB Positive IIIA
Negative Negative
Negative Negative
Positive IB Positive IB
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Positive Positive
Positive IIB Positive IIIA
Negative Negative
Negative Negative
G2 G2
Positive IB Positive IB
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative Negative IIIA
Positive IIB Positive
Negative Negative
Negative Negative IIIB
Positive IB Positive IIA
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Positive Positive
Positive IIB Positive IIIA
Negative Negative
Negative Negative
G3 G3
Positive IIA Positive IIB
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative IIB Negative IIIA
Positive Positive
Negative Negative
Negative IIIA Negative IIIC
Continued
*T1 Includes T1mi.
***N1 includes N1mi. T2, T3, and T4 cancers and N1mi are included for prognostic staging with T2 N1, T3 N1 and T4 N1, respectively.
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-10
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
Table 4. Pathological Prognostic Stage (continued)
Notes:
TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage
1. For cases with lymph node involvement with no evidence of primary tumor (e.g.
T4 N0 M0 Positive IIIA T0 N1, etc.) or with breast ductal carcinoma in situ (e.g. Tis N1, etc.), the grade,
T4 N1*** M0 Positive HER2, ER and PR information from the tumor in the lymph node should be used
Negative
T4 N2 M0 Positive for assigning stage group.
Any T N3 M0 Positive IIIB 2. For cases where HER2 is determined to be “equivocal” by ISH (FISH or CISH)
Negative
Negative testing under the 2013 ASCO/CAP HER2 testing guidelines, HER2 “negative”
G1 category should be used for staging in the Pathological Prognostic Stage Group.
Positive IIIA 3. The prognostic value of these Prognostic Stage Groups is based on populations
Positive
of persons with breast cancer that have been offered and mostly treated with
Negative
Negative appropriate endocrine and/or systemic chemotherapy (including anti-HER2
Positive IIIB therapy).
Negative
Negative Table 5. Genomic Profile for Pathologic Prognostic Staging
Positive IIIA When Oncotype DX Score is Less than 11...
Positive
Negative
TNM Grade HER2 ER PR Stage
Positive
Positive IIIB T1 N0 M0
Negative Any Negative Positive Any IA
Negative T2 N0 M0
G2
Positive IIIA Notes:
Positive 1. Obtaining genomic profiles is NOT required for assigning Pathological
Negative
Prognostic Stage. However genomic profiles may be performed for use in
Negative IIIB
Positive determining appropriate treatment. If the OncotypeDx® test is performed in cases
Negative with a T1N0M0 or T2N0M0 cancer that is HER2-negative and ER-positive, and
Negative IIIC
the recurrence score is less than 11, the case should be assigned Pathological
Positive Prognostic Stage Group IA.
Positive 2. If OncotypeDx® is not performed, or if it is performed and the OncotypeDx®
Negative
Positive score is not available, or is 11 or greater for patients with T1–2 N0 M0 HER2–
Positive IIIB negative, ER-positive cancer, then the Prognostic Stage Group is assigned based
Negative
on the anatomic and biomarker categories shown above.
Negative
G3 3. OncotypeDx® is the only multigene panel included to classify Pathologic
Positive Prognostic Stage because prospective Level I data supports this use for patients
Positive
with a score less than 11. Future updates to the staging system may include
Negative
Negative results from other multigene panels to assign cohorts of patients to Prognostic
Positive IIIC Stage Groups based on the then available evidence. Inclusion or exclusion in this
Negative
Negative staging table of a genomic profile assay is not an endorsement of any specific
assay and should not limit appropriate clinical use of any genomic profile assay
Any T Any N M1 Any Any Any Any IV
based on evidence available at the time of treatment.
***N1 includes N1mi. T2, T3, and T4 cancers and N1mi are included for prognostic staging with T2 N1, T3 N1 and T4 N1, respectively.
Used with the permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing. For complete information and data supporting the staging tables, visit www.springer.com.
ST-11
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
ABBREVIATIONS
3D-CRT three dimensional radiation dMMR mismatch repair deficient PCP primary care physician
therapy
DVH dose-volume histogram
PD-1 programmed cell death protein 1
AI aromatase inhibitor
EBRT external beam radiation therapy
PD-L1 programmed death ligand 1
APBI accelerated partial breast
EIC extensive intraductal component
irradiation PFS progression-free survival
EPC encapsulated papillary carcinoma
ALND axillary lymph node dissection
PMRT postmastectomy radiotherapy
FDG fluorodeoxyglucose
ALT alanine aminotransferase
FSH follicle-stimulating hormone PTSD post-traumatic stress disorder
AST aspartate aminotransferase
FNA fine-needle aspiration PTV planning target volume
AUC area under the curve
GnRH gonadotropin-releasing hormone RCB residual cancer burden
BCs breast cancers H&E hematoxylin and eosin RECIST response evaluation criteria in solid
BCI breast cancer index tumors
IBC inflammatory breast cancer
RNI regional nodal irradiation
BCS breast-conserving surgery IBTR ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence
RS recurrence score
BCT breast-conservation therapy IGRT image-guided radiation therapy
RT-PCR reverse transcriptase polymerase
BIA- breast implant-associated IHC immunohistochemistry
chain reaction
ALCL anaplastic large cell
ILD interstitial lung disease
lymphoma SBRT stereotactic body radiation therapy
IMRT intensity modulated radiation therapy
BIA- breast implant-associated SE standard error
SCC squamous cell ISH in situ hybridization
SLN sentinel lymph node
carcinoma LFTs liver function tests
SLNB sentinel lymph node biopsy
BMI body mass index LH luteinizing hormone
SPC solid papillary carcinoma
CBC complete blood count LVEF left ventricular ejection fraction
SNRI serotonin and norepinephrine
CEA carcinoembryonic antigen LVI lymphovascular invasion reuptake inhibitors
CPS combined positive score
MSI-H microsatellite instability-high SSRI selective serotonin reuptake
CRF cancer-related fatigue inhibitors
NAC nipple-areolar complex
ctDNA circulating tumor TF tumor fraction
NGS next-generation sequencing
deoxyribonucleic acid
TIPN taxane-induced peripheral
NST no special type
DCIS ductal carcinoma in situ neuropathy
OFS ovarian function suppression
DCIS-M DCIS with microinvasion TMB-H tumor mutational burden-high
OS overall survival
DFS disease-free survival TNBC triple-negative breast cancer
PBI partial breast irradiation
DIBH deep-inspiratory breath hold VMAT volumetric modulated arc therapy
pCR complete pathological response
ABBR-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Breast Cancer
Discussion
NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence (≥1 randomized phase 3 trials or high-quality, robust meta-analyses), there is
uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus (≥85% support of the Panel) that the
intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus (≥50%, but <85% support of the Panel) that the
intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate.
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
Interventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate,
Preferred intervention
affordability.
Other recommended Other interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data;
intervention or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain
Other interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
circumstances
All recommendations are considered appropriate.
CAT-1
Version 4.2025, 4/17/25 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Discussion This Discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for Breas t Cancer. The section for systemic therapies (preoperative and adjuvant) was
updated on June 7th, 2024. The update to the rest of the Discussion section is in progress.
Table of Contents
Overview ......................................................................................... MS-2
Recurrent/Stage IV Breast Cancer ................................................ MS-55
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage ............................................... MS-2
Special Situations ......................................................................... MS-77
Guidelines Update Methodology ...................................................... MS-2
Paget Disease ........................................................................... MS-77
Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update Methodology ........ MS-2
Phyllodes Tumors of the Breast ................................................ MS-79
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (Tis, N0, M0) ............................................ MS-3
Breast Cancer During Pregnancy ............................................ MS-80
Workup for DCIS .......................................................................... MS-3
Inflammatory Breast Cancer ..................................................... MS-82
Primary Treatment for DCIS ......................................................... MS-4
Axillary Breast Cancer ............................................................... MS-85
Management of DCIS After Primary Treatment ............................. MS-8
Summary ...................................................................................... MS-86
Invasive Breast Cancer ................................................................. MS-10
References ................................................................................... MS-87
Workup for Non-metastatic (M0) Invasive Breast Cancer ............ MS-10
Locoregional Treatment of cT1–3, cN0 or cN+, M0 Disease ....... MS-13
Surgery .................................................................................. MS-13
Radiation Therapy .................................................................. MS-18
Adjuvant Radiation Therapy After BCS ................................... MS-21
Adjuvant Radiation Therapy After Mastectomy ........................ MS-23
Breast Reconstruction .................................................................. MS-26
Systemic Therapies (Preoperative and Adjuvant) ........................... MS-30
Post-Therapy Surveillance and Follow-up for T0–3, N1, M0 and T1–3,
N0–1, M0 Tumors .......................................................................... MS-52
MS-1
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Overview If sources do not differentiate gender from sex assigned at birth or organs
present, the information is presumed to predominantly represent cisgender
Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in females in the United
individuals. NCCN encourages researchers to collect more specific data in
States and is second only to lung cancer as a cause of cancer death. The
future studies and organizations to use more inclusive and accurate
American Cancer Society has estimated that 313,510 Americans will be
language in their future analyses.
diagnosed with breast cancer and 42,780 will die of disease in the United
States in 2024.1,2 The therapeutic options for patients with noninvasive or
Guidelines Update Methodology
invasive breast cancer are complex and varied. The NCCN Clinical
Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) for Breast Cancer Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update
Methodology
include guidelines for clinical management of patients with carcinoma in
Prior to the update of this version of the NCCN Guidelines® for Breast
situ, invasive breast cancer, Paget disease, Phyllodes tumor, inflammatory
Cancer, an electronic search of the PubMed database was performed to
breast cancer (IBC), male breast cancer, and breast cancer during
obtain key literature using the following search terms: Breast Cancer,
pregnancy. These Guidelines have been developed and are updated
Breast Neoplasms, DCIS, Inflammatory Breast Cancer, OR Phyllodes.
continuously by a multidisciplinary panel of representatives from NCCN
The PubMed database was chosen as it remains the most widely used
Member Institutions with breast cancer-focused expertise in the fields of
resource for medical literature and indexes peer-reviewed biomedical
medical oncology, surgical oncology, radiation oncology, pathology,
literature.3
reconstructive surgery, and patient advocacy.
The search results were narrowed by selecting studies in humans
Sensitive/Inclusive Language Usage
published in English. Results were confined to the following article types:
NCCN Guidelines strive to use language that advances the goals of
Clinical Trial, Phase III; Clinical Trial, Phase IV; Guideline; Randomized
equity, inclusion, and representation. NCCN Guidelines endeavor to use
Controlled Trial; Meta-Analysis; Systematic Reviews; and Validation
language that is person-first; not stigmatizing; anti-racist, anti-classist,
Studies.
anti-misogynist, anti-ageist, anti-ableist, and anti-weight-biased; and
inclusive of individuals of all sexual orientations and gender identities.
The potential relevance of the PubMed search was examined. The data
NCCN Guidelines incorporate non-gendered language, instead focusing
from key PubMed articles selected by the Panel for review during the
on organ-specific recommendations. This language is both more accurate
Guidelines update meeting as well as articles from additional sources
and more inclusive and can help fully address the needs of individuals of
deemed as relevant to these Guidelines and discussed by the Panel have
all sexual orientations and gender identities. NCCN Guidelines will
been included in this version of the Discussion section. Recommendations
continue to use the terms men, women, female, and male when citing
for which high-level evidence is lacking are based on the Panel’s review of
statistics, recommendations, or data from organizations or sources that do
lower-level evidence and expert opinion. The complete details of the
not use inclusive terms. Most studies do not report how sex and gender
Development and Update of the NCCN Guidelines are available at
data are collected and use these terms interchangeably or inconsistently.
www.NCCN.org.
MS-2
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (Tis, N0, M0) for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, and
Pancreatic.
The diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) has increased since the
introduction and increased utilization of screening mammography.
The role of MRI in management of DCIS remains unclear. MRI has been
According to the American Cancer Society, over 50,000 cases of DCIS of
prospectively shown to have a sensitivity of up to 98% for high-grade
the female breast will be diagnosed in the United States in 2022.1
DCIS.11 In a prospective, observational study of 193 patients with pure
DCIS who underwent both mammography and MRI imaging
Workup for DCIS
preoperatively; 93 (56%) patients were diagnosed by mammography and
The recommended workup and staging of DCIS includes history and
153 (92%) were diagnosed by MRI (P < .0001). Of the 89 patients with
physical examination, bilateral diagnostic mammography, pathology
high-grade DCIS, 43 (48%) who were not diagnosed by mammography
review, determination of tumor estrogen receptor (ER) status, and MRI, as
were diagnosed by MRI alone.11 However, other studies suggest that MRI
indicated.
can overestimate the extent of disease.12 Therefore, the surgical decisions
for performing a mastectomy for DCIS should not be solely based on MRI
For pathology reporting, the NCCN Panel endorses the College of
findings alone. If MRI findings suggest more extensive disease than is
American Pathologists (CAP) Protocol for both invasive and noninvasive
seen on mammography such that a markedly larger resection is required
carcinomas of the breast.4
for complete excision, the findings should be verified histologically through
MRI-guided biopsy of the more extensive enhancement. Studies
The NCCN Panel recommends testing for ER status in order to determine
performed to determine whether the use of MRI reduces re-excision rates
the benefit of adjuvant endocrine therapy or risk reduction. This is in
and decreases local recurrence in patients with DCIS show conflicting
accordance with the American Society for Clinical Oncology (ASCO)/CAP
results. While several studies suggest no reduction in re-excision rates in
guidelines,5 which recommend that ER testing of newly diagnosed DCIS to
patients with pure DCIS undergoing breast-conserving surgery (BCS)
determine potential benefit of endocrine therapies for breast cancer risk
following MRI compared with those who did not undergo preoperative
reduction and progesterone receptor (PR) testing be considered optional.
MRI,13,14 some have demonstrated a reduction in re-excision rate with use
Although the tumor HER2 status is of prognostic significance in invasive
of preoperative MRI for DCIS.15,16 One study showed an additional cancer
cancer, its importance in DCIS has not been established. To date, studies
detection rate of 6.2% with preoperative MRI.16 Therefore, the use of
have either found unclear or weak evidence of HER2 status as a
preoperative MRI remains controversial. The NCCN Panel recommends
prognostic indicator in DCIS,6-9 and no statistically significant benefit to the
only performing breast MRI for DCIS in select circumstances where
use of trastuzumab concurrently with radiation in HER2-amplified DCIS.10
additional information is warranted during the initial workup, noting that the
The NCCN Panel has concluded that HER2 status for DCIS does not alter
use of MRI has not been shown to increase likelihood of negative margins
the management strategy and therefore is not recommended for DCIS.
or decrease conversion to mastectomy for DCIS.
Genetic counseling is recommended if the patient is considered to be at
high risk for hereditary breast cancer as defined by the NCCN Guidelines
MS-3
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Primary Treatment for DCIS In contrast, several population-based studies suggest beneficial effects of
WBRT for DCIS after BCS; for example, the use of WBRT in patients with
The goal of primary therapy for DCIS is to prevent progression to invasive
higher-risk DCIS (eg, higher nuclear grade, younger age, larger tumor
breast carcinoma. Management strategies for DCIS treatment include
size) was demonstrated to be associated with a modest but statistically
surgery (mastectomy or BCS), and/or radiation therapy (RT), followed by
significant improvement in OS.28 In another observational study of the
adjuvant endocrine therapy in eligible patients to reduce risk of recurrence.
SEER database including 140,366 patients with DCIS, the 15-year breast
The choice of local treatment does not impact overall disease-related cancer mortality rate was 1.7% for those treated with breast-conserving
survival; therefore, the individual’s preferences for risk reduction must be therapy (BCT) versus 2.3% for patients treated with BCS alone (HR, 0.77;
considered. 95% CI, 0.67–0.88; P < .001), demonstrating a small but significant
reduction in breast cancer mortality with BCS and WBRT compared with
Several prospective randomized trials of pure DCIS have shown that the
BCS alone.29
addition of whole breast RT (WBRT) after BCS decreases the rate of
in-breast disease recurrence,17-24 but not distant metastasis-free survival.25 RT Boost: The use of RT boost has been demonstrated to provide a small
A meta-analysis of four large multicenter randomized trials confirmed the but statistically significant reduction in ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence
results of the individual trials, demonstrating that the addition of WBRT (IBTR) risk (4% at 20 years) in all age groups for invasive breast
after BCS for DCIS provides a statistically and clinically significant cancers.30-33
reduction in ipsilateral breast events (hazard ratio [HR], 0.49; 95%
confidence interval [CI]; 0.41–0.58, P < .00001).26 However, these trials A pooled analysis of patient-level data from 10 academic institutions
evaluated outcomes of pure DCIS patients, all treated with BCS and
did not show that the addition of RT has an overall survival (OS) benefit.
WBRT (n = 4131) who either received RT boost with a median dose of 14
The long-term follow-up of the NSABP B-17 trial showed that at 15 years,
Gy (n = 2661) or received no boost (n = 1470). The median follow-up of
RT resulted in a 52% reduction of ipsilateral invasive recurrence compared
patients was 9 years. A decrease in IBTR was seen in patients who
with excision alone (HR, 0.48; 95% CI, 0.33–0.69, P < .001).23 The OS
received a boost compared with those who did not at 5 years (97.1% vs.
and cumulative all-cause mortality rates through 15 years were similar
96.3%), 10 years (94.1% vs. 92.5%), and 15 years (91.6% vs. 88.0%) (P =
between the two groups (HR for death, 1.08; 95% CI, 0.79–1.48).23 Similar
.0389 for all). The use of RT boost was associated with significantly
findings were reported by a large observational study of the SEER
decreased IBTR across the entire cohort of patients (HR, 0.73; 95% CI,
database that included 108,196 patients with DCIS.27 In a subgroup
0.57–0.94; P = .01).34 In a multivariate analysis that took into account
analysis at 10 years, of 60,000 patients treated with BCS, with or without
factors associated with lower IBTR, including grade, ER positive status,
WBRT, a 50% reduction in the risk of ipsilateral recurrence (adjusted HR,
use of adjuvant tamoxifen, margin status, and age, the benefit of RT boost
0.47 [95% CI, 0.42–0.53]; P < .001) was associated with the addition of
still remained statistically significant (HR, 0.69; 95% CI, 0.53–0.91; P <
WBRT. However, in this study, breast cancer-specific mortality was found .010).34 Even in patients considered very low risk based on negative
to be similar (HR, 0.86 [95% CI, 0.67–1.10]; P = .22).27 margins status (defined as no ink on tumor as per NSABP definition, or
margins >2 mm as per Society of Surgical Oncology [SSO]/American
MS-4
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Society for Radiation Oncology [ASTRO]/ASCO definition), the RT boost study of 215 patients with DCIS treated with BCS without RT, or systemic
remained statistically significant for decreasing the rate of local relapse. risk reduction therapy, the recurrence rates over 8 years were 0%, 21.5%,
and 32.1% in patients with low-, intermediate-, or high-risk DCIS,
Similar to invasive cancers, though RT boost was beneficial in all age
respectively.38 The stratification for risk of recurrence in this retrospective
groups studied, the magnitude of the absolute benefit of the boost was
study was calculated using the modified Van Nuys Prognostic Index based
greatest in younger patients. Two randomized phase III trials are studying
on tumor grade, size, absence of comedo necrosis, margin width, and age
whether an RT boost reduces recurrence in patients with DCIS
at diagnosis.38
(ClinicalTrials.gov Identifiers: NCT00470236 and NCT00907868).
These trials have completed accrual and are now in active follow-up. A A multi-institutional, non-randomized, prospective study of selected
recent publication on the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in patients patients with low-risk DCIS treated without radiation has also provided
enrolled in the BIG 3-07/TROG 07.01 phase III trial (NCT00470236) some support for BCS alone without radiation.41 Patients were enrolled
showed that after 2 years, the cosmetic status was impacted negatively onto one of two low-risk cohorts: 1) low- or intermediate-grade DCIS,
with the boost versus no boost, suggesting the importance of informed tumor size ≤2.5 cm (n = 561); or 2) high-grade DCIS, tumor size ≤1 cm (n
shared decision-making regarding addition of boost until data related to = 104). Protocol specifications included excision of the DCIS tumor with a
impact on local recurrence and OS are published.35 According to the 5- minimum negative margin width of ≥3 mm. Only 30% of the patients
year data from this trial, presented at the 2021 annual San Antonio Breast received tamoxifen. Of note, margins were substantially wider than the 3-
mm protocol requirement in many patients (ie, the low-/intermediate-risk
Cancer Symposium (SABCS) meeting, 93% of patients in the group who
patient group margins were ≥5 mm in 62% of patients and >10 mm or no
did not receive a boost were free from local recurrence compared with
tumor on re-excision in 48% of patients).41 Although the rate of IBTR was
97% in the group who received an RT boost (HR, 0.47; 95% CI, 0.31–
acceptably low for the low-/intermediate-grade group at 5 years, at a
0.72; P < .001).36 The peer-reviewed publication of these data is awaited.
median follow-up of 12.3 years, the rates of developing an IBTR were
Breast Conserving Surgery Alone Without WBRT: RT adds to treatment 14.4% for low-/intermediate-grade and 24.6% for high-grade DCIS (P =
.003). This suggests that IBTR events may be delayed but not prevented
cost and is accompanied by adverse effects. Therefore, in an attempt to
in the seemingly low-risk population.
de-escalate treatment and limit morbidity and preserve quality of life
(QOL), several trials have examined omission of RT in carefully selected
The RTOG 9804 trial investigated outcomes of RT omission in the setting
patients at low risk of disease recurrence.
of low-risk DCIS, randomizing 636 patients with low-risk disease to either
RT or observation after surgery.24 In this study, low risk consisted of low-
There are retrospective series suggesting that selected patients have a
to intermediate-grade DCIS measuring <2.5 cm, with negative margins of
low risk of in-breast recurrence when treated with excision alone (without
≥3 mm. With a median follow-up of 7 years, a reduced risk of local
WBRT).37-40 For example, in one retrospective review, 10-year
recurrence was seen with use of RT compared with observation (0.9% vs.
disease-free survival (DFS) rates of 186 patients with DCIS treated with
6.7%; HR, 0.11; 95% CI, 0.03–0.47). No difference was seen in either
BCS alone were 94% for patients with low-risk DCIS and 83% for patients
DFS or OS. With a follow-up of 15 years, local recurrence rates were
with both intermediate- and high-risk DCIS.37 In another retrospective
MS-5
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
reduced by 50% with RT versus without RT (7.1% vs. 15.1%; HR, 0.36; did not receive RT (P < .0001), but not in those treated with radiation (P =
95% CI, 0.20–0.66).42 .95).50
The available evidence from four randomized trials (NSABP B-39/RTOG According to the DCIS Consensus Guideline on Margins by
0413,43 OCOG-RAPID,44 University of Florence,45 and GEC-ESTRO46) of SSO/ASTRO/ASCO, the use of at least a 2-mm margin in DCIS treated
patients with breast cancer (tumors ≤3 cm) has shown that accelerated with WBRT is associated with low rates of IBTR.47 Additional factors to
partial breast irradiation (APBI) delivered with multi-catheter brachytherapy consider in assessing adequacy of excision for DCIS include presence of
is noninferior in local control compared with WBRT, with similar toxicity residual calcifications, which margin is close (anterior against skin or
and breast cosmetic outcomes. Patients with DCIS constituted 25%, 18%, posterior against muscle vs. medial, superior, inferior, or lateral), and life
8.8%, and 6% of patients in the NSABP B-39/RTOG 0413, OCOG-RAPID, expectancy of the patient. Notably, in situations where DCIS is admixed
University of Florence, and GEC-ESTRO trials, respectively. Per the with invasive carcinoma, the SSO/ASTRO/ASCO Consensus Guideline on
ASTRO guideline for APBI, patients with screen-detected DCIS measuring Margins for invasive breast cancer should be utilized, which supports “no
<2.5 cm, with grade I or II disease, and with negative margins of 3 mm or tumor on ink” as an adequate margin applying to both the invasive and
more are “suitable” candidates for APBI.47 noninvasive components in this mixed tumor scenario.
Margin Status After Breast-Conserving Therapy: Prospective randomized Mastectomy: Patients with DCIS and evidence of widespread disease (ie,
trials have not been carried out to analyze whether wider margins can disease involving two or more quadrants) on diagnostic mammography or
replace the need for RT for DCIS. Results from a retrospective study of other imaging, physical examination, or biopsy may require mastectomy.
445 patients with pure DCIS treated by excision alone indicated that
For DCIS patients undergoing mastectomy, or for local excision in an
margin width was the most important independent predictor of local
anatomic location that could compromise the lymphatic drainage pattern to
recurrence, although the trend for decreasing local recurrence risk with
the axilla (eg, tail of the breast), a sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB)
increasing margin width was most apparent with margins <1 mm
compared to ≥10 mm.48 In a meta-analysis of 4660 patients with DCIS procedure should strongly be considered at the time of definitive surgery
to avoid necessitating a full axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) for
treated with BCS and radiation, a surgical margin of <2 mm was
evaluation of the axilla.51-54 Since only a small proportion of patients (about
associated with increased rates of IBTR compared with margins of 2 mm,
25%) with seemingly pure DCIS on initial biopsy will have invasive breast
although no significant differences were observed when margins of >2 mm
cancer at the time of the definitive surgical procedure55 and will ultimately
to 5 mm or >5 mm were compared with 2-mm margins.49
require axillary lymph node (ALN) staging, ALND is not recommended
A study retrospectively reviewed a database of 2996 patients with DCIS unless there is pathologically documented invasive cancer or ALN
who underwent BCS to investigate the association between margin width metastatic disease in patients (by either biopsy or SNLB).
and recurrence, controlling all other characteristics.50 Wider margins were
NCCN Recommendations for Primary Treatment of DCI
significantly associated with a lower rate of recurrence only in patients who
MS-6
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Trials are ongoing to determine if there might be a selected favorable Contraindications to BCT are listed in the algorithm (see Special
biology DCIS subgroup where surgical excision is not required. Until such Considerations to Breast Conservation Therapy Requiring RT). Patients
time that definitive evidence regarding the safety of this non-surgical treated with mastectomy are appropriate candidates for breast
approach is demonstrated, the NCCN Panel continues to recommend reconstruction (see Principles of Breast Reconstruction Following Surgery
surgical excision for all DCIS. in the algorithm).
According to the NCCN Panel, complete resection should be documented
According to the NCCN Panel, primary treatment options for patients with
by analysis of margins and specimen radiography. Post-excision
DCIS along with their respective categories of consensus are:
mammography can be considered for any uncertainty about adequacy of
1) BCS plus WBRT with or without boost (category 1). While considering
the excision remains (eg, the mass and/or microcalcifications are not
RT boost for DCIS, the NCCN Panel recommends an individualized
clearly within the specimen). Clips may be used to delineate the tumor bed
approach based on patient preference and other factors such as longevity.
and ensure adequate coverage with radiation, provide design of boost and
The NCCN Panel notes that WBRT following BCS reduces IBTR rates in
APBI fields, and provide markers should additional surgery be required
DCIS by about 50% to 70%. For DCIS patients treated with BCS alone
pending the pathologic margin status review.
(without radiation), irrespective of margin width, the risk of IBTR is
substantially higher than treatment with excision followed by WBRT (even
For patients with pure DCIS treated by BCS and WBRT, a quantitative
for predefined low-risk subsets of DCIS patients).
description of any tumor close to margin is helpful as a resection width of
2) Total mastectomy, with or without SLNB with optional reconstruction
at least 2 mm is associated with a reduced risk of IBTR relative to
(category 2A).
narrower negative margin widths. The routine practice of obtaining
3) BCS plus APBI in carefully selected patients (category 2A). According
margins >2 mm to further improve outcomes is not supported by the
to the Panel, select patients with low-risk DCIS may be considered
evidence. When there is only minimal or focal DCIS involvement near the
suitable for APBI if they meet all aspects of the definition of RTOG 9804
margin, clinical judgment should be utilized to weigh the risks of re-
low-risk DCIS or ASTRO “suitable” DCIS for APBI.
excision with risk of recurrence for an individual patient.
4) BCS alone (category 2B). The option of BCS alone should be
considered only in cases where the patient and the physician view the For patients with DCIS treated with excision alone (no WBRT), regardless
individual as having a low risk of disease recurrence. For patients with of margin width, there is a substantially higher rate of IBTR than treatment
low-risk disease that has been fully resected with negative margins and with excision and WBRT, even in predefined, low-risk patients. Although
particularly if they are ER-positive and will be receiving endocrine therapy, the optimal margin width for treatment with excision alone is unknown, it
the absolute reduction of in-breast recurrence may not be large enough to should be at least 2 mm, with some evidence suggesting improved IBTR
justify the risks associated with RT. Therefore, according to the NCCN rates with margin widths wider than 2 mm.
Panel, it may be reasonable to omit RT in such cases.
For DCIS with microinvasion (DCIS-M), defined as an invasive focus 1 mm
or smaller in size, the optimal margin width should refer to the DCIS
MS-7
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
margin definition (≥2 mm), given that the majority of DCIS-M is comprised analysis of ER expression in NSABP B-24 suggests that increased levels
of DCIS and the natural history and systemic therapy utilization for DCIS- of ER expression predict for tamoxifen benefit in terms of risk reduction for
M more closely reflect the treatment pattern for pure DCIS than for ipsilateral and contralateral breast cancer development following BCT.60
invasive carcinoma.
A phase III trial randomized patients with excised DCIS to receive WBRT
Management of DCIS After Primary Treatment or no WBRT and tamoxifen versus no tamoxifen.22 The randomization was
independent for each of the two treatments (RT and tamoxifen). With 12.7
Tamoxifen: DCIS falls between atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) and
years of median follow-up, the use of tamoxifen decreased all new breast
invasive ductal carcinoma within the spectrum of breast proliferative
events (HR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.58–0.88; P = .002). The use of tamoxifen
abnormalities. The Breast Cancer Prevention Trial performed by NSABP
decreased ipsilateral and contralateral breast events in the subjects not
showed a 75% reduction in the occurrence of invasive breast cancer in
patients with ADH treated with tamoxifen.56,57 These data also showed that given WBRT (ipsilateral HR, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.59–0.98; contralateral HR,
0.27; 95% CI, 0.12–0.59), but not in those receiving WBRT (ipsilateral HR,
tamoxifen led to a substantial reduction in the risk of developing invasive
breast disease.58 The Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group 0.93; 95% CI, 0.50–1.75; P = .80; contralateral HR, 0.99; 95% CI, 0.39–
2.49; P = 1.0).
(EBCTCG) overview analysis showed that, with 5 years of tamoxifen
therapy, patients with ER-positive or receptor-unknown invasive tumors
The standard dose of tamoxifen is 20 mg/day for 5 years. The phase III
had a 39% reduction in the annual odds of recurrence of invasive breast
TAM-01 trial studied a lower dose of tamoxifen (5 mg for 3 years) in 501
cancer.59
patients with breast intraepithelial neoplasia including DCIS, lobular
carcinoma in situ (LCIS), and ADH. The rate of recurrence of either
Similarly, the NSABP B-24 trial found a benefit from tamoxifen for patients
intraepithelial neoplasia or invasive breast cancer was 5.7% among those
with DCIS after treatment with breast conservation surgery and RT. In that
receiving tamoxifen 5 mg daily versus 11.9% for those receiving placebo
study, patients with DCIS who were treated with BCT were randomized to
(HR, 0.48; 95% CI, 0.25–0.89) at a median follow-up of 5.1 years.61 The
receive placebo or tamoxifen. At a median follow-up of 13.6 years,
relative risk (RR) reduction with low-dose tamoxifen seen in the TAM-01
patients who received tamoxifen had a 3.4% absolute reduction in
trials is consistent with that seen in trials that used a higher dose of
ipsilateral in-breast tumor recurrence risk (HR, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.21–0.42; P
tamoxifen, but the rate of severe toxicity compared with placebo was less.
< .001) and a 3.2% absolute reduction in contralateral breast cancers (HR,
0.68; 95% CI, 0.48–0.95; P = .023).23 The patients receiving tamoxifen had
Anastrozole: In patients with ER-positive and/or PR-positive DCIS treated
a 10-year cumulative rate of 4.6% for invasive and 5.6% for noninvasive
by wide local excision with or without RT, a large, randomized,
breast cancers in the ipsilateral breast, compared with 7.3% invasive and
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (IBIS-II) compared anastrozole (n =
7.2% noninvasive recurrences for those treated with placebo. The
1471) with tamoxifen (n = 1509). The results demonstrated non-inferiority
cumulative 10-year frequency of invasive and noninvasive breast cancer in
of anastrozole to tamoxifen.62 After a median follow-up of 7.2 years, 67
the contralateral breast was 6.9% and 4.7% in the placebo and tamoxifen
recurrences were reported with anastrozole versus 77 for tamoxifen (HR,
groups, respectively. No differences in OS were noted. A retrospective
0.89; 95% CI, 0.64–1.23). A total of 33 deaths were recorded for
MS-8
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
anastrozole and 36 for tamoxifen (HR, 0.9393; 95% CI, 0.58–1.50; P = management of therapy-related complications. The majority of recurrences
.78).62 Although the number of patients reporting any adverse event was of DCIS are in-breast recurrences after BCT, and recurrences mostly
similar between anastrozole (n = 1323, 91%) and tamoxifen (n = 1379, occur in close proximity to the location of the prior disease. Overall,
93%), the side-effect profiles of the two drugs were different. There were approximately one-half of the local recurrences after initial treatment for a
more fractures, musculoskeletal events, hypercholesterolemia, and pure DCIS are invasive in nature, whereas the remainder recur as pure
strokes reported with anastrozole and more muscle spasms, gynecologic DCIS.
cancers and symptoms, vasomotor symptoms, and deep vein thromboses
NCCN Recommendations for Management of DCIS After Primary
reported with tamoxifen. The NSABP B-35 study randomly assigned 3104
Treatment
postmenopausal patients with hormone-positive DCIS treated with
According to the NCCN Panel, in patients with ER-positive DCIS treated
lumpectomy and radiation to either tamoxifen or anastrozole for 5 years.
with BCT, endocrine therapy with tamoxifen (for premenopausal and
Prior to being randomly assigned, patients were stratified by age—<60
postmenopausal patients) or an aromatase inhibitor (AI) (for
years or >60 years. The primary endpoint was breast cancer-free
postmenopausal patients, especially those <60 years of age or in those
interval.63 Anastrozole treatment resulted in an overall statistically
with concerns of embolism) may be considered as a strategy to reduce the
significant decrease in breast cancer-free interval events compared with
risk of ipsilateral breast cancer recurrence (category 1 for those
tamoxifen (HR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.56–0.96; P = .0234). The significant
undergoing BCT followed by RT; category 2A for those undergoing
difference in breast cancer-free interval between the two treatments was
excision alone). The benefit of endocrine therapy for ER-negative DCIS is
apparent in the study only after 5 years of follow-up. The estimated
not known. Low-dose tamoxifen (5 mg/day for 3 years) is an option only if
percentage of patients with a 10-year breast cancer-free interval was
the 20-mg standard-dose of tamoxifen is not tolerated (see DCIS-2 in the
89.1% in the tamoxifen group and 93.1% in the anastrozole group.63 In
algorithm).
addition, anastrozole resulted in further improvement in breast cancer-free
interval in younger postmenopausal patients (<60 years of age). With
Follow-up of patients with DCIS includes interval history and physical
respect to adverse effects, the overall incidence of thrombosis or
examination every 6 to 12 months for 5 years and then annually, as well
embolism was higher in the tamoxifen group while the anastrozole group
as yearly diagnostic mammography. In patients treated with BCT, the first
had slightly more cases of arthralgia and myalgia.63
follow-up mammogram should be performed 6 to 12 months after the
completion of RT (category 2B) (see DCIS-2 in the algorithm). Patients
Results of the IBIS-II and the NSABP-B-35 studies indicate that
receiving endocrine therapy for risk reduction should be monitored as
anastrozole provides at least a comparable benefit as adjuvant treatment
described in the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer Risk Reduction.
for postmenopausal patients with hormone receptor (HR)-positive DCIS
treated with BCS and RT, with a different toxicity profile.
Surveillance after treatment for DCIS helps early recognition of disease
recurrences (either DCIS or invasive disease) and evaluation and
MS-9
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Invasive Breast Cancer review of the utility of MRI showed conflicting outcome results— one with
benefit75 and another without.76 One systematic review67 documented that
Workup for Non-metastatic (M0) Invasive Breast Cancer
breast MRI staging altered surgical treatment in 7.8% to 33.3% of
The recommended workup of localized invasive breast cancer (listed on
patients;67 however, no differences in local recurrence or survival have
BINV-1 in the algorithm) includes a history and physical examination.
been demonstrated. In addition, there is no evidence that use of breast
Complete blood count (CBC) and liver function tests (LFTs) have no
MRI increases rates of margin-negative resection.77,78
added benefit in the detection of underlying metastatic disease in patients
with asymptomatic early-stage breast cancers.64 In addition, monitoring of
Breast MRI may assist with identification and management of clinically
disease relapse with any tumor markers is not recommended. occult primary tumors presenting with axillary nodal metastases.79 In
patients with Paget disease not identifiable on mammography, breast MRI
Imaging: Imaging with bilateral diagnostic mammography is
may help determine the extent of disease.80,81 Breast MRI also has utility
recommended; breast ultrasonography is recommended only if necessary.
in screening patients with higher than average risk based on family
history.82
The use of MRI in the workup remains controversial. Breast MRI
advocates note its high sensitivity for evaluation of extent of disease,
If breast MRI imaging is performed, a dedicated breast coil, an imaging
particularly for invasive cancer and in dense breasts where
team experienced with reading breast MRI and performing MRI-guided
mammographically occult disease is more likely to elude preoperative
biopsy, and multidisciplinary management are the standard of care.
detection. MRI detractors note that MRI has a high percentage of
false-positive findings, resulting in further diagnostic workup—including
According to the NCCN Panel, the use of MRI is optional and is not
MRI-guided biopsy—in many circumstances.65-67 MRI findings tend to
universally recommended by experts in the field. Breast MRI may be used
overestimate extent of disease,68 resulting in increased frequency of
for staging evaluation to define extent of cancer, in the adjuvant or
mastectomies.69-72
neoadjuvant setting, to detect the presence of multifocal or multicentric
cancer in the ipsilateral breast, or as screening of the contralateral breast
MRI findings alone are not sufficient to determine whether BCT is optimal,
cancer at time of initial diagnosis. Additional indications for breast MRI
as additional tissue sampling is needed to verify true malignant disease
include: clinical axillary metastasis with an occult primary cancer; Paget
warranting excision. MRI use may increase mastectomy rates by
disease of the nipple with breast primary not identified by other breast
identifying areas of mammographically occult disease that may have been
imaging modalities or physical examination; follow-up screening of
adequately treated with radiation after BCS had the disease remained
patients with prior mammographically undetected breast cancers; and
undiscovered without MRI.72
those whose lifetime risk of a second primary breast cancer is >20%
(based on models largely dependent on family history).
Two prospective randomized studies have examined the utility of
preoperative MRI in determining disease extent, and neither demonstrated
Pathology Assessment: A central component of the treatment of breast
improvement in rates of re-excision after initial BCS.73,74 Retrospective
cancer is full knowledge of extent of disease and biologic features. Full
MS-10
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
knowledge of extent of disease and biologic features is central to the Genetic Counseling: For patients considered to be at high risk for
treatment of breast cancer. hereditary breast cancer as defined by the NCCN Guidelines for
Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, and Pancreatic,
The specimens should be oriented for the pathologist, and specific
genetic counseling is recommended.
requests for determination of biomarkers should be stated (eg, ER, PR,
and HER2 status). The Panel also recommends testing for Ki-67 if HR- Distress Assessment: Levels of distress may vary in patients and should
positive, HER2-negative, and considering adjuvant abemaciclib. be addressed individually. Psychological distress can be impacted by body
image and other factors. Younger patients have higher rates of
Accurate pathology reporting requires communication between the
psychosocial distress than patients diagnosed at older ages.83-87 The
clinician and the pathologist relating to relevant patient history, prior breast
NCCN Breast Cancer Panel recommends assessing for distress in
biopsies, prior irradiation to the chest, pregnancy status, characteristics of
patients newly diagnosed with breast cancer using guidance from NCCN
the abnormality biopsied (eg, palpable, mammographically detected
Guidelines for Distress Management.
microcalcifications), clinical state of lymph nodes, presence of
inflammatory change or other skin abnormality, and any prior treatment
Fertility and Sexual Health: The general considerations for fertility and
administered (eg, chemotherapy, RT). The specimens should be oriented
sexual health/function outlined for specific populations in NCCN
for the pathologist, and specific requests for determination of biomarkers
Guidelines for Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Oncology and NCCN
should be stated. The use of consistent, unambiguous standards for
Guidelines for Survivorship are applicable to all patients diagnosed with
reporting is strongly encouraged. Data from both national and local
breast cancer. The Panel recommends referring to those guidelines for
surveys show that as many as 50% of pathology reports for breast cancer
guidance.
are missing some elements critical to disease management.12,13 Significant
omissions include failure to orient and report surgical margins and failure
Numerous epidemiologic studies have demonstrated that childbearing
to report tumor grade consistently. The CAP has developed pathology
after treatment for invasive breast cancer does not increase rates of
reporting protocols to promote complete and standardized reporting of recurrence or death from breast cancer.88 The offspring of pregnancies
malignant specimens. CAP provides a protocol for each disease site that
after treatment for breast cancer do not have an increased rate of birth
includes cancer case summaries (checklists) along with background
defects or other serious childhood illness. However, treatment for breast
documentation. These checklists form the basis for a synoptic,
cancer, especially with cytotoxic agents, may impair fertility and fertility
standardized reporting of pathologic findings. The checklists are available
may wane during the 5 to 10 years of adjuvant endocrine therapy.
without charge through the CAP website at www.cap.org. Consistent,
unambiguous, and complete pathology reporting is a cornerstone of While the potential to regain menstrual function within 2 years of
quality breast cancer care. The NCCN Breast Cancer Panel endorses the completing chemotherapy is possible, especially for those <35 years of
use of the CAP protocols for reporting the pathologic analysis of all breast age,89 resumption of menses does not correlate with fertility, and
cancer specimens.5 conversely, fertility may be preserved without menses. Therefore, all
MS-11
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
premenopausal patients should be informed about the potential impact of fertility. The fertility specialist should discuss specifics of fertility
chemotherapy on fertility and offered the option of fertility preservation if preservation options including hormonal interventions, ovarian stimulation,
future childbearing is desired. embryo or oocyte cryopreservation, and other investigational options, as
well as the probability of successful gestation and childbirth.104,105
Considerations for fertility preservation should incorporate patient
preference, tumor stage and biology, age of the patient, risk of premature Combining the various modalities for a specific patient may increase the
ovarian failure based on anticipated type and duration of chemotherapy odds of preservation of future fertility. It is important for fetal safety that
and/or endocrine therapy, as well as the timing and duration allowed for patients actively avoid becoming pregnant during breast cancer treatment.
fertility preservation.
Additional Diagnostic Workup
Several studies report lower rates of fertility discussion among female The Panel has reiterated that routine systemic imaging is not indicated for
patients with cancer90-92 despite the updated ASCO guidelines stating that patients with early-stage breast cancer in the absence of signs/symptoms
patients should not be excluded from consideration for discussion of of metastatic disease. Recommendations for additional metastatic workup
fertility preservation for any reason, including parity, prognosis, age, and should be performed for those patients with signs or symptoms suspicious
socioeconomic status.93 The NCCN Panel recommends that all treating for metastatic disease, based on lack of evidence to demonstrate any
physicians should have a discussion with their patients of childbearing benefits with metastatic workup in early-stage disease.106-108 In one study,
potential regarding the options for fertility preservation. Patients who metastases were identified by bone scan in 5.1%, 5.6%, and 14% of
desire to bear children after systemic therapy should be referred to a patients with stage I, II, and III disease, respectively, and no evidence of
fertility specialist prior to initiating systemic (chemotherapy or endocrine) metastasis was detected by liver ultrasonography or chest radiography in
therapy.93-99 patients with stage I or II disease.106 For patients with stage III breast
cancer, the prevalence of a positive liver ultrasound and positive chest
Randomized trials have demonstrated that GnRH agonists (such as
x-ray was 6% and 7%, respectively.106
goserelin) administered prior to initiating chemotherapy and then
administered concurrently with adjuvant chemotherapy protect against CBC, comprehensive metabolic panel, liver function, and alkaline
ovarian failure and reduce the risk of early menopause.100-102 In one trial phosphatase tests should be considered only if the patient is a candidate
goserelin improved the probability of pregnancy from 11% to 21% in for preoperative or adjuvant systemic therapy. A bone scan or sodium
patients with HR-negative early-stage breast cancer.103 Smaller historical fluoride PET/CT is indicated in patients presenting with localized bone
experiences in patients with HR-positive disease have conflicting results pain or elevated alkaline phosphatase. Bone scan or sodium fluoride
with respect to the protective effects of GnRH agonists in fertility PET/CT may not be needed if FDG-PET/CT is performed and clearly
preservation. indicates bone metastasis, on both the PET and CT component.
Patients should be informed of all the various modalities available to A diagnostic chest CT is indicated only if pulmonary symptoms (ie, cough
minimize gonadal damage and preserve ovarian function and future or hemoptysis) are present. Likewise, abdominal and pelvic imaging using
MS-12
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
diagnostic CT or MRI is indicated if the patient has elevated alkaline treatment for the majority of patients with stage I and stage II breast
phosphatase, abnormal results on LFTs, abdominal symptoms, or cancers (category 1).113-117 The optimal choice of surgery is based on a
abnormal physical examination of the abdomen or pelvis. shared decision made by the patient and clinician after discussing benefits
and risks of mastectomy versus BCT in regards to long-term survival, risk
FDG-PET/CT may be performed at the same time as diagnostic CT, and
of local recurrence, and the impact on cosmetic outcome and overall QOL.
may be helpful in situations where standard staging studies are equivocal
or suspicious. FDG-PET/CT may also be helpful in identifying Breast Conserving Surgery
unsuspected regional nodal disease and/or distant metastases when used BCS allows patients to preserve their breast without sacrificing oncologic
in addition to standard staging studies. The routine use of FDG-PET/CT outcome. BCS is contraindicated for patients who are pregnant and would
scanning is not recommended in the staging of clinical stage I, II, or require radiation during pregnancy; have diffuse suspicious or
operable III (T3,N1) breast cancer, due to its high false-negative rate for malignant-appearing microcalcifications on mammography; have
the detection of lesions that are small (<1 cm) and/or low-grade disease, widespread disease that cannot be incorporated by local excision of a
the high rate of false-positive scans in patients without locally advanced single region or segment of the breast tissue with a satisfactory cosmetic
disease, the low sensitivity for detection of axillary nodal metastases, and result; have diffusely positive pathologic margins; or have homozygous
the low probability of these patients having detectable metastatic (biallelic) inactivation for ATM mutation (category 2B). Relative
disease.109-112 contraindications to lumpectomy include previous RT to the breast or
chest wall; active connective tissue disease involving the skin (especially
Locoregional Treatment of cT1–3, cN0 or cN+, M0 Disease
scleroderma and lupus); persistently positive pathologic margin; or those
Surgery with a known or suspected genetic predisposition to breast cancer who
Patients with early-stage operable breast cancer initially undergo upfront may have an increased risk of ipsilateral breast recurrence or contralateral
definitive surgery (BCS or mastectomy), and adjuvant systemic therapy if breast cancer with BCT or who may be considered for prophylactic
indicated, based on primary tumor characteristics, such as tumor size, bilateral mastectomy for risk reduction as per the criteria in the NCCN
grade, lymph node involvement, ER/PR status, expression of HER2 Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian,
receptor, and tumor genomics. Some patients with early-stage operable and Pancreatic or may have known or suspected Li-Fraumeni syndrome
HER2-positive or triple-negative disease may be treated with preoperative (category 2B).
systemic therapy first, followed by surgery. For NCCN Panel
recommendations and consideration for preoperative systemic therapy, Several studies of patients with early-stage breast cancer treated with
refer to www.NCCN.org. Radiation is typically sequenced after definitive BCS have identified young age as a significant predictor of an increased
surgery and after systemic chemotherapy (if delivered). likelihood of IBTRs after BCT.118-120 Risk factors, such as a family history
of breast cancer or a genetic predisposition for breast cancer (ie, BRCA1/2
Several randomized trials document that mastectomy is equivalent to
or other cancer-predisposing mutation), are more likely to exist in the
BCT, which includes BCS with WBRT with respect to OS as primary
MS-13
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
population of young patients with breast cancer, thereby confounding the observed in those who received risk-reducing contralateral mastectomy,
independent contributions of age and treatment to clinical outcome.121 although no improvement was seen in OS of these patients.133
With respect to OS outcomes for young patients with breast cancer, BCT The Panel recommends that patients with breast cancer who are ≤35
or mastectomy are similar.115,116,122-124 Some studies have shown improved years or premenopausal and carriers of a known BRCA1/2 mutation
survival125-127 and fewer post-surgical complications128 with BCS. consider additional risk reduction strategies following appropriate risk
assessment and counseling (see NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer
Mastectomy
Risk Reduction and NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk
Mastectomy is indicated for patients who are not candidates for BCS or Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, and Pancreatic). This process should
those who choose to undergo this procedure over BCS. involve multidisciplinary consultations prior to surgery, and should include
a discussion of the risks associated with development of a contralateral
Only limited data are available on the survival impact of risk-reducing
breast cancer as compared with the risks associated with recurrent
contralateral mastectomy in patients with a unilateral breast cancer.129
disease from the primary cancer. Except as specifically outlined in the
Analysis of patients included in the SEER database treated with
NCCN Guidelines for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast,
mastectomy for a unilateral breast cancer from 1998 to 2003 showed that
Ovarian, and Pancreatic, risk reduction mastectomy of the contralateral
contralateral risk-reducing mastectomy performed at the time of treatment
breast to a known unilateral breast cancer treated with mastectomy or
of a unilateral cancer was associated with a reduction in breast
BCT is discouraged by the Panel.
cancer-specific mortality only in the population of young patients (18–49
years of age) with stage I/II, ER-negative breast cancer (HR, 0.68; 95% The NCCN Panel recommends referring to the NCCN Guidelines for Older
CI, 0.53–0.88; P = .004).130 The 5-year breast cancer survival for this Adult Oncology for special considerations for this population.
group was only slightly improved with contralateral risk-reducing
mastectomy versus without (88.5% vs. 83.7%, difference = 4.8%).130 Margin Assessment: After surgical resection, a careful histologic
These differences observed in retrospective analysis could be due to assessment of resection margins is essential. The NCCN Panel notes that
selection bias among patients who chose risk-reducing contralateral benefit of BCS is predicated on achieving pathologically negative margins
mastectomy.131 A statistical simulation of survival outcomes after risk- after resection. The NCCN Panel accepts the most recent definition
reducing contralateral mastectomy among patients with stage I or II breast outlined in the guidelines established by the SSO/ASTRO as the standard
cancer with no BRCA mutation found that the absolute 20-year survival for negative surgical margins for invasive cancer.134
benefit from risk-reducing contralateral mastectomy was <1% among all
For patients with stage I or II invasive cancers after BCS, a positive margin
age, ER status, and cancer stage groups.132 Data from another
is defined as “ink on tumor” (any invasive cancer or DCIS cells on ink).
meta-analysis found no absolute reduction in risk of distant metastases
Patients with positive margins generally require further surgery—either a
with risk-reducing mastectomy.133 Furthermore, among patients with
re-excision to achieve a negative margin or a mastectomy. If re-excision is
unilateral breast cancer who have an increased familial/genetic risk, a
technically feasible to achieve “no ink on tumor,” this can be done with
decrease in metastatic contralateral breast cancer incidence was
MS-14
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
resection of the involved margin guided by the orientation of the initial may have an increased risk of ipsilateral recurrence and therefore may
resection specimen or re-excision of the entire original excision cavity. benefit from re-excision.
There may be select patients with stage III invasive cancers who may be
Surgical Axillary Staging
eligible for BCS. For these patients, the margin status would be assessed
with similar definitions. If margins remain positive after further surgical
Axillary status is important for planning systemic adjuvant treatment and
re-excision(s), then mastectomy may be required for optimal local disease
RT. The lymphatic pathways from the breast go to the ALNs, internal
control.
mammary, infraclavicular, and/or supraclavicular lymph nodes.
In order to adequately assess margins following surgery, the Panel
Traditional level I and level II ALNDs require that at least 10 lymph nodes
recommends that the surgical specimens be directionally oriented and that
be provided for pathologic evaluation to accurately stage the axilla.135,136
the pathologist provide descriptions of the gross and microscopic margin
ALND should be extended to include level III nodes only if gross disease is
status and the distance, orientation, and type of tumor (invasive cancer or
apparent in the level II and I nodes. In the absence of gross disease in
pure DCIS) in relation to the closest margin. Marking the tumor bed with
level II nodes, lymph node dissection should include tissue inferior to the
clips facilitates accurate planning of the radiation boost field, where
axillary vein from the latissimus dorsi muscle laterally to the medial border
appropriate.
of the pectoralis minor muscle (levels I and II).
For invasive breast cancers that have a component of DCIS, the negative
Historically, ALND has been the standard of care for axillary staging.137
margin definition of “no ink on tumor” should be utilized based on the
However, ALND is associated with lymphedema and other significant
SSO/ASTRO Consensus Guideline on Margins unless it is DCIS-M, which
morbidities.138-140 This has been largely replaced with SLNB.
behaves more like pure DCIS and 2-mm margins are recommended. In
this setting, “no ink on tumor” is recommended for either DCIS or invasive SLN mapping injections may be peritumoral, subareolar, or subdermal.
cancer cells, primarily because the natural history, treatment, and SLNs can be assessed for the presence of metastases by both
outcomes of these lesions are more similar to invasive cancer than DCIS. hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining and cytokeratin
For specifically challenging cases, clinical judgment and discussion with immunohistochemistry (IHC). The clinical significance of a lymph node that
the patient should precede routine re-excision. is negative by H&E staining but positive by cytokeratin IHC is not clear.
Because the historical and clinical trial data on which treatment decisions
The same margin recommendations cannot be applied directly to patients
are based have relied on H&E staining, the Panel does not recommend
undergoing APBI, where data regarding local recurrence are more limited
routine cytokeratin IHC to define node involvement and believes that
than WBRT. Individualized clinical judgment should be utilized on a case-
current treatment decisions should be made based solely on H&E staining.
by-case basis, using postoperative mammography to identify residual
This recommendation is further supported by a randomized clinical trial
calcifications and clinical-pathologic factors such as quantitative extent of
(ACOSOG Z0010) for patients with H&E negative nodes where further
disease near margin, presence of extensive intraductal component (EIC),
examination by cytokeratin IHC was not associated with improved OS over
young age, or multiple close margins to assist in identifying patients who
MS-15
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
a median of 6.3 years.141 In the uncommon situation in which H&E staining positive SLN undergoing a completion ALND versus no ALND. Only
is equivocal, reliance on the results of cytokeratin IHC is appropriate. ER-negative status, age <50 years, and lack of adjuvant systemic therapy
were associated with decreased OS.150 At a median follow-up of 6.3 years,
Two randomized trials compared SLNB alone versus ALND. The Milan
locoregional recurrences were noted in 4.1% of patients in the ALND
trial (1998–1999) randomized 516 patients treated with BCS with tumors
group and 2.8% of patients in the SLNB group (P = .11). Median OS was
≤2 cm to two arms, one receiving immediate axillary dissection and the
approximately 92% in each group.151 Long-term follow-up (median 9.25
other receiving the dissection only if the sentinel node was involved.142
years) results of the ACOSOG Z0011 study showed no statistically
After 79 months of follow-up, there was no difference in OS and DFS.143
significant difference in local recurrence-free survival (RFS) between trial
arms (P = .13).152 The cumulative incidence of ipsilateral axillary
Another similar study, NSABP B-32, conducted between 1999 and 2004,
recurrences at 10 years was 0.5% (2 patients) in those who underwent
randomized 5611 patients with invasive breast cancer ≤2 cm to either
ALND and 1.5% (5 patients) in those who underwent SLNB alone (P =
ALND or SLNB alone with ALND performed only if the SLN was
.28).152 The 10-year cumulative incidence of locoregional recurrences was
positive.144 After 95.6 months of follow-up, OS and DFS were similar in the
6.2% with ALND and 5.3% with SLNB alone (P = .36).152
two groups. Results of a subgroup analysis of this study showed patients
with ALND had significantly higher arm morbidity and significantly more
The results of the ACOSOG Z0011 trial demonstrate that there is no
restricted work and social activity and impaired QOL.145,146
benefit to ALND in patients with early-stage breast cancer who have only
one or two SLN metastases (minimal nodal burden) on SLNB after
The ALMANAC trial studied the QOL in patients (n= 1031) with SLNB
receiving WBRT as part of BCT. Mastectomy patients were not enrolled in
versus ALND.147 After 12 months, lymphedema and sensory loss were
the ACOSOG Z0011 trial since these patients do not routinely receive
higher in the ALND group. Operative time, drainage use, hospitalization,
radiation.
and resumption of normal life were much longer in ALND compared to the
SLNB group. The SNAC trial148 and the DBCCG trial149 also showed less
Another randomized trial (IBCSG 23-01) was specifically designed to
morbidity with SLNB compared with ALND.
compare outcomes in patients with sentinel micrometastases (≤2 mm)
treated with ALND versus no ALND.153 While the ACOSOG Z0011 trial
Based on the results of the above studies, it was clarified that for negative
was limited to those undergoing BCT, this trial included patients
sentinel nodes, ALND is not needed.
undergoing mastectomy (9%).153 Between the group treated with SLNB
The ACOSOG Z0011 trial addressed the role of ALND in those with a plus ALND versus the group that had SLNB alone, there were no
clinically negative axilla but pathologically positive lymph nodes from an differences in 5-year DFS (84.4%; 95% CI, 80.7%–88.1% vs. 87.8%; 95%
SLNB. This trial randomized patients ≥18 years of age with clinical T1/T2 CI, 84.4%–91.2%); cumulative incidence of breast cancer events,
tumors, fewer than 3 positive SLNs, undergoing BCS and WBRT, to SLNB including local, regional, contralateral breast, and distant recurrence
alone (n = 436) or to a completion ALND (n = 420). In this study, there was (10.8%; 95% CI, 7.6–14.0 vs. 10.6%; 95% CI, 7.5–13.8); or OS (97.6%;
no difference in local recurrence, DFS, or OS between patients with 95% CI, 96.0%–99.2% vs. 97.5%; 95% CI, 95.8%–99.1%).153 Regional
MS-16
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
recurrence was <1% for those who underwent ALND and 1% for those In the setting of preoperative chemotherapy, the question that is being
who did not undergo ALND.153 The results of this trial show that in patients explored is whether ALND may be omitted in patients with complete
with micrometastases on SLNB, ALND is not needed. pathologic response after preoperative therapy.
The results of a trial by the European EORTC group (AMAROS) assessed Several prospective studies have evaluated patients with positive lymph
whether axillary RT provides regional control with fewer side effects nodes before preoperative systemic therapy who had clinical complete
compared with ALND.154 This trial included patients (n = 4823) with T1 or response to preoperative therapy and underwent SLNB and ALND. The
T2 breast cancer with positive SLNs randomized to an ALND or axillary results of these studies have shown that in those with node-positive
RT. One thousand four hundred twenty-five patients had positive SLNs disease prior to preoperative systemic therapy, SLNB has a >10% false-
(micrometastatic or macrometastatic), which included a small fraction of negative rate when performed after preoperative systemic therapy. In the
patients (n = 248) treated with mastectomy (17%).154 The results reported SENTINA study,157 the overall false-negative rate was 14.2%. In the
no difference in 5-year OS or DFS for patients randomized to ALND ACOSOG-Z1071 trial,158 the false-negative rate was 12.6% and in the SN
versus axillary radiation.154 The 5-year DFS was 86.9% (95% CI, 84.1– FNAC trial,159 the false-negative rate was 13.3%.
89.3) in the ALND group and 82.7% (79.3–85.5) in the axillary RT group.
Subgroup analyses from studies have shown that 1) using dual-agent
The 5-year OS was 93.3% (95% CI, 91.0–95.0) in the ALND group and
lymphatic mapping (radiotracer and blue dye); 2) identifying three or more
92.5% (90.0–94.4) in the axillary RT group.154 At the end of 5 years,
SLNs; and 3) marking the metastatic lymph node with a clip before
lymphedema was less frequent in the group treated with axillary RT versus
neoadjuvant therapy and then resecting it at the time of surgery reduces
ALND (11% vs. 23%).154 The 10-year follow-up results presented at the
false-negative rates to <10%.
2021 SABCS showed no significant differences between the two arms with
respect to OS (with ALND, OS was 84.6% vs. 81.4% with axillary RT),
A subgroup analysis of the ACOSOG Z1071 trial showed lower false-
distant metastasis-free survival (with ALND was 81.7% vs. 78.2% with
negative rates in patients who had a clip placed in the positive lymph
axillary RT), or locoregional recurrence rate (3.59% with ALND vs. 4.07%
nodes at the time of initial biopsy followed by removal of the clipped node
with axillary RT). The axillary recurrence with axillary RT was 1.8% versus
during SLN surgery after preoperative systemic therapy.160 A another
0.93% with ALND.155
study of selective localization and removal of clipped nodes with SLNB,
known as targeted axillary dissection (TAD), showed false-negative rates
The OTOASAR trial was designed similarly to the AMAROS trial; patients
reduced to approximately 2% compared with 4% with removal of the
(n = 2100) with tumors ≤3.0 cm who were clinically node negative were
clipped lymph node alone.161
randomized to receive either ALND or axillary RT if they had 1 to 2
positive SLNs.156 The results showed no difference in axillary recurrence
Several ongoing clinical trials are examining further de-escalation of
with ALND compared with SLNB plus RT to the axilla.156
axillary surgery in those who have positive nodes after preoperative
systemic treatment. The Alliance A011202/MAC19 trial (NCT01901094) is
randomly assigning patients who have sentinel node–positive disease
MS-17
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy to ALND versus no further axillary In patients with clinically suspicious (palpable) lymph nodes or 3 or more
surgery. Both arms will receive regional nodal radiation. The SLNB alone suspicious lymph nodes on imaging, or if preoperative systemic therapy is
arm will include axillary RT to the undissected axilla (levels I–III), whereas being considered for patients with suspicious lymph nodes at diagnosis on
the ALND arm will not include RT to levels I or II axillae. examination or imaging, the Panel recommends pathologic confirmation of
malignancy using ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA)163 or
NCCN Recommendations for Surgical Axillary Staging: If ALNs are
core biopsy of suspicious nodes with clip placement.
clinically negative (no palpable nodes) at the time of diagnosis, ≤2
suspicious lymph nodes are found on imaging, or ≤2 positive lymph nodes According to the NCCN Panel, the recommendation for ALND of level I
are confirmed by needle biopsy, the Panel recommends SLN mapping. and II nodes is limited to patients with biopsy-proven axillary metastases
(in those who did not receive preoperative systemic therapy) or who have
If SLN is negative, no further surgery is needed in these patients. If SLN is
residual disease after preoperative chemotherapy. Highly selected
positive, based on the ACOSOG Z 0011 data, no further surgery is
patients with biopsy-proven axillary metastases, who then converted to
recommended only if all of the following criteria are met: the patients have
clinically node negative after preoperative systemic therapy, may undergo
cT1–2, N0 tumors, have not received preoperative systemic therapy, only
SLNB with removal of the clipped lymph node. This is a currently a
have 1 or 2 positive SLNs, and will undergo BCT (BCS + WBRT). If any of
category 2B recommendation as the rate of false negatives is high when
the above criteria are not met, the Panel recommends level I and II axillary
SLN is performed after preoperative systemic therapy.
dissection.
According to the NCCN Panel, based on available data, the false-negative
Based on the AMAROS and OTASAR trial data, no further surgery is
rate can be reduced by marking biopsied lymph nodes to document their
recommended only if all of the following criteria are met: the patients have
removal, using dual tracer, and by removing 3 or more sentinel nodes
cT1–2, N0 tumors, have not received preoperative systemic therapy, have
(targeted ALND). When sentinel nodes are not successfully identified, the
1 to 2 positive SLNs, and will undergo lumpectomy or mastectomy along
Panel recommends level I and II axillary dissection be performed for
with adjuvant RT with intentional inclusion of undissected axilla at risk. If
axillary staging.
any of the above criteria are not met, the Panel recommends level I and II
axillary dissection. In select patients undergoing mastectomy with clinically Radiation Therapy
negative axillae but 1 to 2 positive SLNs, the Panel notes that axillary
Principles of Radiation Therapy
radiation may replace ALND for regional control of disease. Based on the
It is important to individualize RT planning and delivery. CT-based
results of the IBCSG 23-01 trial, the NCCN Panel recommends no ALND
treatment planning is encouraged to delineate target volumes and
for patients with positive SLNs when that disease is limited to only
adjacent organs at risk. Greater target dose homogeneity and sparing of
micrometastatic. According to the American Joint Committee on Cancer
normal tissues can be accomplished using compensators such as
(AJCC) staging, micrometastatic nodal involvement is defined as a
wedges, forward planning using segments, and intensity-modulated RT
metastatic deposit or >0.2 mm but ≤2.0 mm.162
(IMRT). Respiratory control techniques including deep inspiration
MS-18
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
breath-hold and prone positioning may be used to try to further reduce Another randomized trial showed similar outcomes among patients
dose to adjacent normal tissues, particularly the heart and lung.164 receiving a hypofractionated schedule (40 Gy in 15 fractions) compared
Verification of treatment setup consistency is done with weekly imaging. with standard fractionation (50 Gy in 25 fractions) in patients (n = 1854)
When using certain techniques (ie, prone breast), more frequent imaging with node-negative breast cancer (n = 1608) or DCIS (n = 246).174 The 9-
may be appropriate. Standard utilization of daily imaging is not year risk of locoregional recurrence was 3.3% in the 50-Gy group and
recommended. Radiation to the breast/chest wall and nodal regions is 3.0% in the 40-Gy group. The 9-year OS was 93.4% in the 50-Gy group
generally delivered with single-energy or mixed-energy photons with or and 93.4% in the 40-Gy group. Radiation-associated cardiac and lung
without electrons. Dose-volume histograms (DVHs) should be used to disease were comparable between the groups.
evaluate dose constraints, evaluate dose to normal tissues (ie, heart,
Other shorter schedules of delivering WBRT have also been studied with
lung), and ensure adequate coverage to the intended planning target
similar results. The FAST trial compared patients >50 years of age with
volumes (PTVs), including the breast/chest wall, supraclavicular fossa,
low-risk invasive breast carcinoma (pT1–2, pN0) randomly assigned to the
axillary levels I–III, and internal mammary nodes.
standard schedule of 50 Gy in 25 fractions over 5 weeks or 30 Gy or 28.5
Whole Breast Radiation Therapy Gy in 5 fractions once weekly. After 10-year follow-up, there were no
WBRT reduces the risk of local recurrence and has shown to have a significant differences reported in normal tissue effects for the standard 50
beneficial effect on survival.114,117 Randomized trials have demonstrated Gy in 25 fractions schedule versus a once-weekly schedule for 5 weeks
decreased in-breast recurrences with an additional boost dose of radiation totaling 28.5 Gy, but normal tissue effects were higher with a weekly
(by photons, brachytherapy, or electron beam) to the tumor bed.165,166 For schedule for 5 weeks totaling 30 Gy.175
greater homogeneity of target dose and to spare normal tissues using
The FAST Forward trial randomized patients with non-metastatic breast
compensators such as tissue wedges, forward planning using segments
cancer (n = 4096) after BCS or mastectomy to one of the following: 40 Gy
and IMRT may be used.167,168
in 15 fractions over 3 weeks; 27 Gy in 5 fractions over 1 week; or 26 Gy in
Four randomized clinical trials have investigated hypofractionated WBRT 5 fractions over 1 week to either whole beast or chest wall.176 The 5-year
schedules (39–42.9 Gy in single fractions of 2.6–3.3 Gy) compared to incidence of ipsilateral breast tumor relapse was 2.1% with the standard
standard 50 Gy in single fractions of 2 Gy.169-172 The 10-year follow-up 40 Gy in 15 fractions over 3 weeks versus 1.7% with 27 Gy in 5 fractions
data from the START trials173 are consistent with the 10-year results of the over 1 week (5.4 Gy per fraction; HR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.51–1.44) and 1.4%
Canadian trial,172 which reported that local tumor control and breast with 26 Gy in 5 fractions over 1 week (5.2 Gy per fraction; HR, 0.67; 95%
cosmesis were similar with a regimen of 42.5 Gy in 16 fractions over 3.2 CI, 0.38–1.16).176 The moderate or marked tissue effects in the breast or
weeks compared with the standard dose of 50 Gy in 25 fractions over 5 chest wall were 15% with 27 Gy, 12% with 26 Gy, and 10% with 40 Gy,
weeks.172 The START trials reported radiation-related effects to normal but differences between the 40 Gy and 26 Gy groups were not statistically
breast tissue such as breast shrinkage, telangiectasia, and breast edema different.176
as less common with the hypofractionated regimen.173
MS-19
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
RT Boost to Tumor Bed: In patients with higher risk characteristics (such reconstruction, several techniques using photons and/or electrons are
as age <50 years, high-grade disease, or patients with focally positive appropriate. Chest wall scar boost may be delivered with or without bolus
margins) an RT boost has been shown to reduce local using electrons or photons.
relapse.30,32,166,173,177-179 RT boost treatment in the setting of breast
NCCN Recommendations for Chest Wall Radiation: The NCCN Panel
conservation can be delivered using enface electrons, photons, or
recommends a dose of 45 to 50.4 Gy in 25 to 28 fractions to the chest
brachytherapy.180
wall. A boost at the scar of 1.8 to 2 Gy per fraction to a total dose of
NCCN Recommendations for WBRT: The Panel has defined the target as approximately 60 to 66 Gy may be considered in some cases based on
breast tissue at risk. The NCCN Panel recommends a dose of 40 to 42.5 risk. Special consideration should be given to the use of bolus material to
ensure that the skin dose is adequate, particularly in the case of IBC.
Gy in 15 to 16 fractions for all patients getting whole breast radiation
without regional nodal radiation, based on its equivalence in efficacy and
Regional Nodal Irradiation
toxicity demonstrated in the moderately hypofractionated trials.173 While
Two studies, MA.20 and EORTC 22922/10925, evaluated the addition of
these abbreviated courses of RT of 40 to 42.5 Gy in 15 to 16 fractions are
regional nodal irradiation (RNI) to the internal mammary nodes and the
the NCCN Panel’s preferred fractionation schema for whole breast
upper axillary nodes including the supraclavicular region, in addition to
radiation, the conventionally fractionated regimen of 46 to 50 Gy in 23 to
WBRT or chest wall irradiation after BCS or mastectomy, respectively. In
25 fractions may be utilized in selected patients. The RT boost doses
MA.20, regional recurrences were reduced from 2.7% with breast
intended to decrease rate of local recurrence are 10 to 16 Gy in 4 to 8
irradiation only to 0.7% with the addition of nodal irradiation.181 The distant
fractions.
recurrences were reduced from 17.3% to 13.4%.181 An improvement in
DFS was seen from 77% to 82% at 10 years in those who received RNI
Ultra-hypofractionated WBRT of 28.5 Gy delivered as 5 (once weekly)
compared to those who did not.181 In EORTC 22922/10925, regional RT
fractions may be considered in select patients with pTis/T1/T2/N0 aged
reduced the incidence of regional recurrences from 4.2% to 2.7% and
>50 years after BCS, though the optimal fractionation for the boost
decreased the rate of distant metastases from 19.6% to 15.9% at a
delivery is unknown for this regimen. Alternatively, 26 Gy in 5 daily
median follow-up of 10.9 years.182 Results of 15.7 years follow-up showed
fractions over one week may be considered, though data beyond 5 years
that breast cancer mortality (19.8% vs. 16%; 95% CI, 0.70–0.94) and
for local relapse or toxicity are not yet available for this regimen and
breast cancer recurrence (27.1% vs. 24.5%; 95% CI, 0.77%–0.98%) were
should be discussed with patients prior to its use. The Panel also notes reduced with internal mammary and medial supraclavicular RT.183
that when using ultra-hypofractionated dosing, it is essential to utilize 3D
planning to minimize inhomogeneity and exposure to heart and lung. The independent contribution of internal mammary nodal RT as a
component of RNI continues to be debated as it is associated with higher
Chest Wall Radiation risk of cardiac and lung toxicity, and data regarding its benefits are
The target includes the ipsilateral chest wall, mastectomy scar, and drain conflicting (discussed in detail below).
sites when indicated. Depending on whether the patient has had breast
MS-20
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
NCCN Recommendation for RNI: When considering RNI, anatomic rates of fair/poor cosmetic outcome with 3D conformal APBI delivered as
variations across patients result in significant differences in prescription 38.5 Gy in 10 twice-daily fractions.44,190 The majority of APBI patients on
depth and field design. The NCCN Panel therefore NSABP B-39 were treated with the same external beam regimen, and
recommends contouring the individual nodal basins that are at risk using treatment-related toxicities were not different for APBI versus WBRT as
one of the various breast atlases, to ensure adequate RT coverage. 184,185 currently reported.43 Cosmetic outcome analysis, however, is pending.
The recommended dose for RNI is 45 to 50.4 Gy in 25 to 28 fractions to
NCCN Recommendation for APBI: The Panel accepts the updated
the regional nodal fields. A supplemental RT boost can be delivered to
ASTRO APBI consensus statement for guidance on APBI use.191 The
grossly involved or enlarged lymph nodes (ie, internal mammary or
NCCN Panel recommends APBI for any BRCA-negative patient who
clavicular) that have not been surgically addressed.
meets the ASTRO 2016 “suitable” criteria defined as age >50 years, ER-
positive invasive ductal carcinoma measuring ≤2 cm (pT1 disease) with
Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation
negative margin widths of ≥2 mm, and no lymphovascular invasion (LVI),
Several large, randomized trials have been published using various forms
and also permits APBI in patients >50 years of age with screen-detected
of APBI rather than WBRT after BCS. Most of these studies have found
low- or intermediate-grade DCIS measuring ≤2.5 cm, resected with ≥3 mm
that rates of local control in selected patients, with early-stage breast
margins. The Panel prefers the APBI regimen and method followed in the
cancer and low risk of recurrence, are equal to those treated with
trial by University of Florence (30 Gy/5 fractions every other day delivered
WBRT.44,46,186-188 In the NSABP B-39 trial, 10-year cumulative incidence of
using IMRT).187 The Panel encourages participation in clinical trials for
IBTR with APBI was 4.6% compared with 3.9% with WBRT, yielding an
patients who do not meet the above criteria.
absolute difference of 0.7% with an HR of 1.22 (90% CI, 0.94–1.58) that
did not meet the prespecified criteria for equivalence.43 However, given the
Adjuvant Radiation Therapy After BCS
small magnitude in IBTR differences between WBRT and APBI, it is not Those who have a positive lymph node have a high risk of recurrence.
likely to be of clinical significance in appropriately selected patients. Therefore, after BCS WBRT is strongly recommended with or without
boost to tumor bed for node-positive disease (category 1 for those with
QOL, toxicity, and cosmetic outcomes have generally been comparable or
positive nodes; category 2A for those with negative axillary nodes). This
slightly favored APBI in randomized trials. For example, the IMPORT-LOW
recommendation is supported by the results of a meta-analysis by the
study compared WBRT with partial breast irradiation delivered as 40 Gy in
EBCTCG showing reduction in 10-year risk of recurrence in those who
15 once-daily fractions using reduced-size breast tangents and found less
received WBRT versus those who did not (19% vs. 35%; RR, 0.52; 95%
breast firmness, less change in breast appearance, and lower average
CI 0.48–0.56).117 In addition, a significant reduction in 15-year risk of
number of adverse events per person with partial breast irradiation.186,189
breast cancer death (21% vs. 25%; RR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.75–0.90) was
The University of Florence compared WBRT with intensity-modulated
also observed.117
APBI (30 Gy in 5 fractions, delivered every other day), and 10-year results
have shown that APBI produced less acute and late toxicity and better
cosmetic outcomes.187 However, the RAPID trial found significantly higher
MS-21
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
For patients with a pathologically confirmed, focally positive margin without distant recurrence and breast cancer-specific mortality favoring RT to
EIC, who do not undergo re-excision after BCS, the use of a higher internal mammary nodes.193
radiation boost dose to the tumor bed may be considered, since generally
Clinical judgment is needed when determining inclusion of the internal
a boost to the tumor bed is recommended for patients at higher risk of
mammary nodes during RNI. Therefore, the NCCN Panel no longer
recurrence.
specifies the fields that should be included for RNI and refers to it as
Regional Nodal Irradiation After BCS comprehensive RNI. According to the Panel, patient selection should
The reduction in the risk of locoregional and distant recurrence and consider risks versus benefits including long-term organ (cardiac and lung)
improvement in DFS seen in the MA.20 and EORTC 22922/10925 toxicities, comorbidities of the patient, age, and life expectancy. In
trials,181,182 and the reduction in breast cancer mortality with 15-year follow- including RT to the internal mammary nodes, meticulous treatment
up of the EORTC 22922 patients,183 support the importance of RNI after planning with normal tissue dose constraints is mandatory.
BCS.
RNI After BCS for Node-Negative Disease: The NCCN Panel
As mentioned previously, routine inclusion of the internal mammary nodes recommends consideration of comprehensive RNI in patients with
as a component of RNI remains somewhat controversial due to the central/medial tumors (in accordance with EORTC 22922 trial criteria) and
associated cardiac and lung toxicities. A Korean trial KROG 08-06 studied in accordance with the MA.20 criteria: 3 tumors, as well as those with T2
independent effect on DFS of RT to internal mammary nodes after BCS or tumors who have undergone limited axillary dissection (<10 lymph nodes)
mastectomy for node-positive disease,192 randomizing patients to RNI with and also have other risk factors, including high-grade histology, ER-
internal mammary RT versus RNI without internal mammary RT. Radiation negative disease, or LVI.181
to the internal mammary nodes did not significantly improve the DFS in
RNI After BCS for Node-Positive Disease: For those with 1 to 3 positive
patients with node-positive breast cancer. However, there was a
nodes, if a patient meets all of the following criteria—has cT1–T2, cN0; did
statistically significant benefit in outcomes with internal mammary nodal
not receive preoperative chemotherapy; and has 1 to 2 positive SLNs—the
RT for patients with medially or centrally located tumors.192 Conflicting
use of comprehensive RNI with or without the intentional inclusion of the
data have arisen from the Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group that
axilla is at the discretion of the radiation oncologist. If the patients do not
recently reported 15-year follow-up of their study on RT to internal
meet all the criteria listed, the NCCN Panel recommends WBRT with
mammary nodes in patients (n = 3089) with positive nodes and early-
inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at risk (category 1) with
stage breast cancer.193 In this study, RT to the internal mammary nodes
strong consideration of comprehensive RNI.
was delivered to right-sided patients (n = 1,491), while no RT to internal
mammary nodes was delivered to left-sided patients (n = 1,598). The
For those with 4 or more positive nodes, the NCCN Panel recommends
study reported a 15-year improved OS rate of 60.1% with RT to internal
comprehensive RNI with inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla
mammary nodes compared to 55.4% with no RT to internal mammary
at risk (category 1).
nodes. Improvements were also seen with respect to risk of developing
MS-22
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Radiation Therapy After BCS in Older Adults with ER-Positive Tumors breast cancer mortality in the patients with 1 to 3 positive lymph nodes
WBRT as a component of BCT does not affect breast cancer-specific even when systemic therapy was administered.182,203 According to the
survival in selected patients >70 years of age with more indolent disease. NCCN Panel, post-mastectomy radiation to the chest wall is
In a study of patients with clinical stage I, ER-positive breast cancer who recommended in all of these patients (category 1). Data from the EORTC
were ≥70 years of age at diagnosis, patients were randomized to receive 22922/10925 trial support the inclusion of RNI in patients undergoing post-
BCS with WBRT or BCS alone, both with tamoxifen for 5 years. mastectomy radiation. The trial assessed the independent effects of
Locoregional recurrence rates were 1% in the BCS, radiation, and including RNI versus no RNI when treating the chest wall after
tamoxifen arm and 4% in the BCS plus tamoxifen arm. There were no mastectomy. Based on the benefits demonstrated in this trial, the NCCN
differences in OS, DFS, or need for mastectomy.194 These results were Panel recommends comprehensive RNI to include any undissected axilla
confirmed in an updated analysis of this study with a median follow-up of at risk (category 1 for 1 or more positive nodes).
12.6 years.195 At 10 years, a statistically significant reduction in IBTR was
seen with RT with 90% of patients in the BCS and tamoxifen arm Post-Mastectomy RT for Node-Negative Disease:
compared with 98% in the BCS plus radiation and tamoxifen arm.195 In patients with negative nodes, tumor ≤5 cm, and clear margins (≥1 mm),
Concordant results have been demonstrated in other studies of similar post-mastectomy RT (PMRT) is typically not recommended. However, the
design.196,197 Whether the increase in local relapse without RT is relevant Panel has noted that it may be considered in subsets of these patients
for an individual patient should be individualized after a discussion of the with high-risk features. Based on the inclusion criteria of node-negative
risks and benefits of RT and patient commitment to 5 years of endocrine patients enrolled onto the RNI trials (MA-20 and EORTC 22922), any
therapy if RT omission is being considered. patients with the following high-risk features, including central/medial
tumors, T3 tumors, or tumors ≥2 cm with <10 axillary nodes removed and
The NCCN Guidelines allow for the use of BCS (pathologically negative
at least one of the following: grade 3, ER-negative, or LVI, should be
margin required) with 5 years of tamoxifen or an AI, without breast
considered for PMRT with RNI to include any undissected axilla at risk.
irradiation, for patients >70 years with clinically negative lymph nodes and
Features in node-negative tumors that predict a high rate of local
ER-positive, T1 breast cancers (category 1).
recurrence include primary tumors >5 cm or positive pathologic
margins.204
Adjuvant Radiation Therapy After Mastectomy
Post-Mastectomy RT for Node-Positive Disease
In patients with positive pathologic margin, if re-resection to negative
margins is not possible, the Panel recommends strongly considering chest
Randomized clinical trials have shown that a DFS and OS advantage is
wall irradiation with the addition of comprehensive RNI including any
conferred by the irradiation of chest wall and regional lymph nodes in
portion of the axilla at risk. Chest wall irradiation should be considered with
patients with positive ALNs after mastectomy and ALND.198-202 In these
addition of comprehensive RNI, including any portion of the axilla at risk in
trials, the ipsilateral chest wall and the ipsilateral locoregional lymph nodes
those with tumors >5 cm. In patients with tumors ≤5 cm and negative
were irradiated. The results of EBCTCG meta-analyses show that RT after
margins ≤1 mm, chest wall irradiation should be considered with
mastectomy and axillary node dissection reduced both recurrence and
MS-23
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
consideration of comprehensive RNI including any portion of the chemotherapy, but are found to have persistent nodal disease on SLNB,
undissected axilla at risk only in those with high-risk features.
are candidates for the ALLIANCE 11202 trial assessing whether ALND
can be safely replaced with axillary RT. ALND is the standard arm of this
trial; however, in the event that a neoadjuvant therapy patient with node-
Considerations for RT in Patients Receiving Preoperative Systemic
positive disease (ypN1+) does not undergo a complete axillary dissection,
Therapy
all levels of the undissected axilla should be included with the radiation
The Panel recommends that decisions related to administration of
treatment.
adjuvant RT for patients receiving preoperative systemic chemotherapy
should be made based on maximal stage (ie, clinical/anatomic stage,
RT After Preoperative Therapy and Mastectomy:
tumor characteristics) at diagnosis (before preoperative systemic therapy) Those who have clinically positive nodes at diagnosis that respond to
and pathologic stage at definitive surgery (after preoperative systemic preoperative systemic therapy and become node-negative should be
therapy). Data from numerous studies in patients with stage III disease strongly considered to receive RT to the chest wall and comprehensive
suggest that postoperative RT improves local control even for patients RNI with inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla at risk based on
who have a pathologic complete response (pCR) to neoadjuvant the discussion above.
chemotherapy.205-208
RT After Preoperative Therapy and BCS: For those with positive nodes (ypN1+) after preoperative systemic therapy,
Those who have clinically negative nodes at diagnosis, that remain axillary dissection is the standard treatment arm of the ongoing Alliance
pathologically node-negative at definitive surgery (after systemic therapy), 11202 trial; however, if RT is indicated it should include chest wall along
should receive adjuvant RT to the whole breast with the addition of boost with comprehensive RNI with inclusion of any portion of the undissected
to the tumor bed after SLNB. axilla at risk.
Patients who have clinically/radiographically positive nodes at diagnosis Those who have node-negative disease at diagnosis and after
and convert to clinically/radiographically node-negative after preoperative preoperative systemic therapy and whose axilla was assessed by SLNB or
chemotherapy are candidates for the NSABP B-51 trial assessing the axillary node dissection may forego RT.
benefit of RNI. Until the results of this trial become available, the existing
Two prospective trials are ongoing and will prospectively evaluate the
data suggest that node-positive disease at presentation is at high risk for
benefit of RT in patients treated with neoadjuvant therapy (NSABP B-
locoregional recurrence and should be considered to receive
51/RTOG 1304 [NCT01872975] and the Alliance A011202/MAC19 trial
comprehensive RNI with inclusion of any portion of the undissected axilla
[NCT01901094]).
at risk.
Patients who have clinically/radiographically positive nodes at diagnosis Sequencing of RT and Systemic Therapy
who convert to clinically/radiographically negative nodes after preoperative
MS-24
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
If chemotherapy and radiation are indicated after surgery, adjuvant complication rate with the concurrent administration of HER2-targeted
radiation is typically delivered after the completion of chemotherapy.209,210 therapies with adjuvant RT.217
This recommendation is based on results of the “Upfront-Outback” trial in
which patients who had undergone BCS and axillary dissection were
randomly assigned to receive chemotherapy following RT or RT following
chemotherapy. The initial results showed an increased rate of local
recurrence in the group with delayed RT at a median follow-up of 58
months;210 however, differences in rates of distant or local recurrence were
not statistically significant when the two arms were compared at
135-month follow-up.209 While it is common for RT to follow chemotherapy
when chemotherapy is indicated, based on data from prospective and
retrospective studies, CMF (cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil)
and RT may be given concurrently.
Data from multiple studies of patients treated with endocrine therapy either
before, during, or after RT suggest no difference in outcomes or
toxicity.211-214 Therefore, according to the NCCN Panel, sequential or
concurrent endocrine therapy with RT is acceptable. However, due to
compounding side effects, initiating endocrine therapy at the completion of
RT may be preferred.
When adjuvant capecitabine215 is indicated, since it is a known
radiosensitizing agent with potential to increase toxicity to normal tissue, it
should be given after completion of adjuvant RT.
When adjuvant olaparib is used, the Panel recommends that olaparib be
given after completion of RT. In the OlympiA trial,216 olaparib was not
administered concurrently with RT and there are limited data on safety of
concurrent administration.
Adjuvant HER2-targeted therapy may be delivered concurrently with RT.
Data from clinical trials in the adjuvant setting do not suggest an increased
MS-25
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Breast Reconstruction Breast Reconstruction After Mastectomy
Mastectomy results in loss of the breast for breastfeeding, loss of
Breast reconstruction may be an option for anyone receiving surgical
sensation in the skin of the breast and nipple-areolar complex (NAC), and
treatment for breast cancer. Therefore, all patients undergoing breast
loss of the breast for cosmetic, body image, and psychosocial purposes.
cancer treatment should be educated about breast reconstructive options
The loss of the breast for cosmetic, body image, and psychosocial issues
as adapted to their individual clinical situation and be offered an
may be partially overcome through the performance of breast
opportunity to consult with a reconstructive plastic surgeon. Breast
reconstruction with or without reconstruction of the NAC.
reconstruction should not interfere with the appropriate surgical
management. This may increase the risk of overall and cancer-related
Those undergoing mastectomy should be offered consultation regarding
death, especially in those with late-stage disease.218 Coordinating
options and timing of breast reconstruction.
consultation and surgical treatment with a reconstructive surgeon should
be executed within a reasonable timeframe.
Many factors must be considered in the decision-making about breast
reconstruction. There are several different types of breast reconstruction
Several reconstructive approaches are summarized for these patients in
that include the use of implants, autogenous tissues, or both.224-226
the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer under Principles of Breast
Reconstruction with implants can be performed either by immediate
Reconstruction Following Surgery.
placement of a permanent subpectoral implant or initial placement of a
subpectoral expander implant followed by gradual expansion of the
The decision regarding type of reconstruction includes patient preference,
implant envelope with stretching of the pectoralis major muscle and
body habitus, smoking history, comorbidities, plans for irradiation, and
overlying skin followed by replacement of the expander with a permanent
expertise and experience of the reconstruction team. Smoking and obesity
implant. A wide variety of implants are available that contain saline,
increase the risk of complications for all types of breast reconstruction
whether with implant or flap.219-223 Smoking and obesity are therefore silicone gel, or a combination of saline and silicone gel inside a solid
silicone envelope.
considered a relative contraindication to breast reconstruction by the
NCCN Panel. Patients should be informed of increased rates of wound
Autogenous tissue methods of reconstruction use various combinations of
healing complications and partial or complete flap failure among patients
fat, muscle, skin, and vasculature from donor sites (ie, abdomen, buttock,
who smoke and have obesity.
back) that may be brought to the chest wall with their original blood supply
(pedicle flap) or as free flaps with microvascular anastomoses to supply
Reconstruction is an optional procedure that does not impact the
blood from the chest wall/thorax.227 Several procedures using autologous
probability of recurrence or death, but it is associated with an improved
tissue are available including transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous
QOL for many patients. It is sometimes necessary to perform surgery on
flap, latissimus dorsi flap, and gluteus maximus myocutaneous flap
the contralateral breast (ie, breast reduction, implantation) to achieve
reconstruction.
optimal symmetry between the ipsilateral reconstructed breast and the
contralateral breast.
MS-26
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Composite reconstruction techniques use implants in combination with placement. Immediate placement of an implant in patients requiring
autogenous tissue reconstruction to provide volume and symmetry. postoperative radiation has an increased rate of capsular contracture,
Patients with underlying diabetes or who smoke tobacco have increased malposition, poor cosmesis, and implant exposure. Surgery to exchange
rates of complications following autogenous tissue breast cancer the tissue expanders with permanent implants can be performed prior to
reconstruction, presumably because of underlying microvascular disease. radiation or after completion of RT.
Reconstruction can be performed either at the time of the mastectomy In a previously radiated patient, the use of tissue expanders/implants is
known as “immediate breast reconstruction” and under the same relatively contraindicated.231 Tissue expansion of irradiated skin can result
anesthetic or in a delayed fashion any time, known as “delayed breast in a significantly increased risk of capsular contracture, malposition, poor
reconstruction.” In many cases, breast reconstruction involves a staged cosmesis, implant exposure, and failed reconstruction.232,233If a patient
approach requiring more than one procedure such as surgery on the has previously received RT to the breast, autologous tissue reconstruction
contralateral breast to improve symmetry, revision surgery involving the is the preferred method of breast reconstruction.
breast and/or donor site, and/or nipple and areola reconstruction and
Skin-Sparing Mastectomy
tattoo pigmentation.
Skin-sparing mastectomy procedures are appropriate for some patients
Plans for post-mastectomy RT can impact decisions related to breast and involve removal of the breast parenchyma including the NAC while
reconstruction since there is a significantly increased risk of implant preserving the majority of the original skin envelope, and are followed by
capsular contracture following irradiation of an implant. Furthermore, post- immediate reconstruction with autogenous tissue, a prosthetic implant, or
mastectomy irradiation may have a negative impact on breast cosmesis a composite of autogenous tissue and an implant. Skin-sparing
when autologous tissue is used in immediate breast reconstruction, and mastectomy involving preservation of the skin of the NAC has become the
may interfere with the targeted delivery of radiation when immediate subject of increased attention. Possible advantages of this procedure
reconstruction is performed using either autologous tissue or breast include improvements in breast cosmesis, body image, and nipple
implants.228,229 Some studies, however, have not found a significant sensation following mastectomy, although the impact of this procedure on
compromise in reconstruction cosmesis after RT.230 The preferred these QOL issues has not been well-studied.234-236 There are limited data
approach to breast reconstruction for irradiated patients was a subject of from surgical series, with short follow-up, that suggest that performance of
controversy among the Panel. While some experienced breast cancer NAC-sparing mastectomy in selected patients is associated with low rates
teams have employed protocols in which immediate tissue reconstructions of occult involvement of the NAC with breast cancer and local disease
are followed by RT, generally RT is preferred to precede autologous recurrence.235,237,238 NAC-sparing procedures may be an option in patients
reconstruction due to the reported loss in reconstruction cosmesis who are carefully selected by experienced multidisciplinary teams.
(category 2B). When implant reconstruction is planned in a post- According to the NCCN Panel, when considering a NAC-sparing
mastectomy patient requiring RT, the NCCN Panel prefers a staged procedure, assessment of nipple margins is mandatory. Retrospective
approach with immediate tissue expander placement followed by implant data support the use of NAC-sparing procedures for patients with breast
MS-27
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
cancer with low rates of nipple involvement and low rates of local Breast Reconstruction After Lumpectomy
recurrence due to early-stage, biologically favorable (ie, Nottingham grade Issues related to breast reconstruction also pertain to those who undergo
1 or 2, node-negative, HER2-negative, no LVI) invasive cancers and/or or have undergone a lumpectomy, particularly in situations where the
DCIS that are peripherally located in the breast (>2 cm from nipple).239,240 surgical defect is large and/or expected to be cosmetically unsatisfactory.
Contraindications for nipple preservation include evidence of nipple An evaluation of the likely cosmetic outcome of lumpectomy should be
involvement such as Paget disease or other nipple discharge associated performed prior to surgery. Oncoplastic techniques for breast conservation
with malignancy and/or imaging findings suggesting malignant can extend breast-conserving surgical options in situations where the
involvement of nipple and subareolar tissues. Several prospective trials resection by itself would likely yield an unacceptable cosmetic outcome.247
are underway to evaluate NAC-sparing mastectomy in the setting of The evolving field of oncoplastic surgery includes the use of “volume
cancer and enrollment in such trials is encouraged. displacement” techniques performed in conjunction with a large partial
mastectomy.248 Oncoplastic volume displacement procedures combine the
Advantages of a skin-sparing mastectomy procedure include an improved
removal of generous regions of breast tissue (typically designed to
cosmetic outcome resulting in a reduction in the size of the mastectomy
conform to the segmentally distributed cancer in the breast) with
scar and a more natural breast shape, especially when autologous tissue
“mastopexy” techniques in which remaining breast tissues are shifted
is used in reconstruction,241 and the ability to perform immediate
together within the breast envelope to fill the resulting surgical defect and
reconstruction. Although no randomized studies have been performed,
thereby avoid the creation of significant breast deformity. Volume
results of several mostly retrospective studies have indicated that the risk
displacement techniques are generally performed during the same
of local recurrence is not increased when patients receiving skin-sparing
operative setting as the breast-conserving lumpectomy by the same
mastectomies are compared with those undergoing non-skin–sparing
surgeon who is performing the cancer resection.248,249
procedures. However, strong selection biases almost certainly exist in the
identification of patients appropriate for skin-sparing procedures.242-246 Advantages of oncoplastic volume displacement techniques are that they
Reconstruction of the NAC may also be performed in a delayed fashion if permit the removal of larger regions of breast tissue, thereby achieving
desired by the patient. Reconstructed nipples are devoid of sensation. wider surgical margins around the cancer, and at the same time better
According to the NCCN Panel, skin-sparing mastectomy should be preserve the natural shape and appearance of the breast than do standard
performed by an experienced breast surgery team that works in a breast resections.250
coordinated, multidisciplinary fashion to guide proper patient selection for
Limitations of oncoplastic volume displacement techniques include lack of
skin-sparing mastectomy, determine optimal sequencing of the
standardization among centers, performance at only a limited number of
reconstructive procedure(s) in relation to adjuvant therapies, and perform
sites in the United States, and the possible necessity for subsequent
a resection that achieves appropriate surgical margins. Post-mastectomy
mastectomy if pathologic margins are positive when further
radiation should still be applied for patients treated by skin-sparing
breast-conserving attempts are deemed impractical or unrealistic.
mastectomy following the same selection criteria as for standard
Nevertheless, the Panel consensus is that these issues should be
mastectomy.
MS-28
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
considered prior to surgery for individuals who are likely to have a surgical
defect that is cosmetically unsatisfactory. Those who undergo lumpectomy
and are dissatisfied with the cosmetic outcome after treatment should be
offered a consultation with a plastic surgeon to address the repair of
resulting breast defects. Patients should be informed of the possibility of
positive margins and potential need for secondary surgery, which could
include re-excision segmental resection, or could require mastectomy with
or without loss of the nipple. Oncoplastic procedures can be combined
with surgery on the contralateral unaffected breast to minimize long-term
asymmetry.
Finally, decisions regarding breast reconstruction should primarily focus
on treatment of the tumor, and such treatment should not be
compromised.
MS-29
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Systemic Therapies (Preoperative and Adjuvant) Other benefits of preoperative systemic therapy include allowing time for
appropriate genetic testing and for planning potential breast reconstruction
This section for systemic therapies (preoperative and adjuvant) was updated on
in patients proceeding with mastectomy. For those with significant residual
June 7th, 2024.
disease after standard preoperative systemic therapy, it may provide an
Preoperative Systemic Therapy opportunity to identify patients who may benefit from further adjuvant
The NCCN Panel has outlined the rationale, appropriate patient selection, therapy after surgery. It many allow sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB)
and response assessment for preoperative systemic therapy in a new alone or allow for limited radiation fields if clinically node positive disease
section titled, Principles of Preoperative Chemotherapy. becomes clinically node negative after preoperative systemic therapy. In
addition, preoperative systemic therapy also serves as an excellent
Randomized clinical trials have found no significant differences in
research platform to test novel therapies and predictive biomarkers by
long-term outcomes when systemic chemotherapy is given before or after
providing tumor specimens and blood samples prior to and during
surgery.251,252 Historically, a primary advantage of administering
systemic treatment.
preoperative systemic therapy has been to improve surgical outcomes.
Preoperative systemic therapy can convert inoperable tumors to operable Selection of Patients for Preoperative Therapy
and also downstage a significant number of patients with operable breast Not all patients are appropriate candidates for preoperative systemic
cancer to allow for more limited breast conservation procedures. 253 therapy. According to the NCCN Panel, among those with inoperable
Results from large clinical trials and retrospective reviews indicate that breast tumors, preoperative systemic therapy is indicated in patients with
breast conservation rates are improved with preoperative systemic locally advanced or inoperable breast cancer including those with
therapy.252,254 Clinicians need to carefully consider the extent of disease in inflammatory breast cancer; those with bulky or matted cN2 axillary nodes;
the breast, tumor biology and likelihood of adequate tumor response cN3 regional lymph node nodal disease; and cT4 tumors.
before recommending preoperative systemic therapy to improve the
likelihood of successful breast conservation. In patients with operable tumors, preoperative systemic therapy is the
preferred approach for the following scenarios: for patients with TNBC and
In addition, use of preoperative systemic therapy may provide important HER2+ breast cancer that is clinical stage T2N0 and higher or is clinically
prognostic information based on response to therapy. Achieving a node positive; if the patient’s breast cancer subtype is associated with a
pathologic complete response (pCR) to neoadjuvant therapy is associated high likelihood of response; or if a patient desires BCS and the size of the
with favorable disease-free and OS in early-stage breast cancer. The tumor is large relative to that of the breast.
correlation between pathologic response and long-term outcomes in
When preoperative systemic therapy is used to improve the likelihood of
patients with early-stage breast cancer is strongest for patients with
successful breast conservation, the surgical plan should consider the
triple-negative breast cancer, less so for HER2-positive disease, and least
possibility that clear surgical margins may not always be obtained, and a
for hormone-positive disease.255-257
follow-up mastectomy may be required, with or without breast
reconstruction. This consideration is especially important when oncoplastic
MS-30
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
breast reduction techniques or contralateral breast symmetry procedures operable ER-positive, HER2-negative disease, to aid in predicting
are added to the breast-conserving surgery to achieve optimal cosmetic response to preoperative therapy.
outcomes.
Preoperative therapy options:
The NCCN Panel cautions that preoperative systemic therapy is not Chemotherapy: A number of chemotherapy regimens have activity in the
appropriate for certain patients. Preoperative systemic therapy should not preoperative setting. According to the NCCN Panel, those regimens
be offered in patients with extensive in situ disease when the extent of recommended in the adjuvant setting may be considered in the
invasive disease cannot be defined; in patients where the extent of the preoperative setting. In both settings, the underlying aim remains the
tumor is poorly delineated; or in those whose tumors are not clinically same: eradication or control of undiscovered distant metastases.
assessable. The decision to utilize preoperative therapy should be made
in the context of a coordinated and collaborative multi-disciplinary team. Endocrine Therapy: Preoperative endocrine therapy alone may be offered
to those with strongly HR-positive tumors based on comorbidities or low-
For predicting the response of pre-operative endocrine therapy for
risk luminal biology based on clinical characteristics and/or genomic
postmenopausal women with ER-positive, HER2-negative, cN0 breast signatures (until desired effect is achieved).260-267 The results of the
cancer, data from the TransNEOS study demonstrate a significant
ACOSOG Z1031 trial show that preoperative endocrine therapy is
correlation between 21 gene assay Recurrence Score and clinical
effective in reducing residual disease and enabling BCS for many patients
response to preoperative letrozole. Those whose tumors had a with low rates of local-regional recurrence post-surgery. 268
Recurrence Score between 0-17 were significantly more likely to respond
to preoperative letrozole compared with Recurrence Score of 31-100.258 According to the NCCN Panel, the endocrine therapy options include an
aromatase inhibitor (with ovarian function suppression (OFS) for
For predicting the response to pre-operative chemotherapy for post-
premenopausal patients) or tamoxifen (with or without OFS for
menopausal, ER-positive, HER2-negative patients with T1/T2, node
premenopausal patients). The preferred endocrine therapy option for
negative tumors, another study evaluated the role of the Recurrence
postmenopausal patients is an aromatase inhibitor. The panel has added
Score with pathologic response rates after pre-operative systemic therapy.
a comment that the optimal response to endocrine therapy, if achieved is
Their findings suggest high Recurrence Scores are associated with a
anywhere between 4-6 months based on the above trials.
higher likelihood of pCR after preoperative chemotherapy.259
HER2-Targeted Therapy: For patients with HER2-positive breast cancer,
Based on the above two studies that showed the use of 21-gene
that are candidates for preoperative systemic therapy, chemotherapy and
Recurrence Score in predicting response to preoperative chemotherapy,
trastuzumab-based therapy is recommended.269 Chemotherapy and dual
258,259 the NCCN panel has added a footnote for considering the use of a
anti-HER2 blockade associated with trastuzumab plus pertuzumab has
gene expression assay during workup when contemplating preoperative
shown significant improvements in the pCR rate when compared with
endocrine or systemic therapy for postmenopausal patients with cN0,
chemotherapy and trastuzumab in the preoperative setting.
MS-31
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
In the TRYPHAENA trial, preoperative therapy with pertuzumab and chemotherapy.274 There are no data comparing adjuvant pembrolizumab
trastuzumab given along with anthracycline-containing or
with other newer adjuvant therapies such as adjuvant capecitabine and/or
anthracycline-free standard chemotherapy regimens to patients with
olaparib in patients who meet criteria for treatment with one or more of
operable, locally advanced, or inflammatory HER2-positive breast cancer
these agents.
showed pCR rates in all treatment arms ranging from 57% to 66%.270 In
the Neosphere trial, the addition of pertuzumab to trastuzumab and
Response Assessment During Preoperative Chemotherapy
docetaxel preoperatively led to a statistically significant increase in pCR in
The NCCN panel recommends that tumor response should be routinely
the breast which in turn led to improves outcomes in those with node-
assessed by clinical exam during the delivery of preoperative systemic
positive disease.271,272 The NCCN Panel supports the FDA-approved
therapy. Patients with operable breast cancer experiencing progression of
indication that a pertuzumab-containing regimen may be administered
disease while undergoing preoperative systemic therapy should be taken
preoperatively to patients with greater than or equal to cT2, or greater than
promptly to surgery. Imaging during preoperative systemic therapy should
or equal to cN1, HER2-positive, early-stage breast cancer.
not be done routinely but may be considered if tumor progression is
suspected. Imaging prior to surgery should be determined by a
Immunotherapy: The randomized phase III multicenter, double-blind,
multi-disciplinary team.
placebo-controlled trial (KEYNOTE-522) compared preoperative
carboplatin and paclitaxel followed by doxorubicin or epirubicin and
In a multicenter analysis of patients (n=5161), the residual cancer burden
cyclophosphamide in combination with either pembrolizumab (n=784) or
(RCB) after preoperative chemotherapy was seen to be prognostic within
placebo (n=390), followed by pembrolizumab or placebo administered
each breast cancer subtype.275 Higher RCB scores were significantly
every 3 weeks for up to nine cycles after surgery, in patients with
associated with worse event-free survival, with hazard ratios ranging from
previously untreated stage II-III TNBC.273 After a median follow-up of 39.1
1.55 to 2.16 across different breast cancer subtypes.
months, a significant improvement in event-free survival was seen with the
addition of pembrolizumab compared with placebo plus chemotherapy. This study highlights RCB as a prognostic factor for outcomes in patients
The 3-year event-free survival rates were 84.5% and 76.8%, respectively with breast cancer patients undergoing preoperative chemotherapy.275
(HR = 0.63, 95% CI = 0.48–0.82; P < .001).273
As noted under the “workup” section, in order to have a standardized
The 5-year follow-up of KEYNOTE-522 trial results showed an method of pathology reporting, the NCCN endorses the CAP protocol for
improvement in EFS rate in patients treated with chemotherapy plus pathology reporting for all invasive and noninvasive carcinomas of the
pembrolizumab compared with the placebo arm (81.3% vs. 72.3%), with breast. On the Principles of Preoperative Therapy page, the panel
reduction in risk for recurrence, progression, complications, or death of encourages that the pathology report from definitive surgery after
37% (HR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.49-0.81).274 Among patients in the trial who had preoperative systemic therapy include the standardized tissue sampling
a pCR and received adjuvant pembrolizumab, the 5-year EFS rate was and reporting elements of the Residual Cancer Burden (RCB). However,
92.2% compared with 88.2% in patients who received only since RCB reporting is currently not mandatory given its main purpose for
MS-32
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
prognostication only, there is inconsistent reporting of RCB across considered ER+ and eligible for endocrine therapies. Given the limited
institutions and no uniform agreement among the panel that RCB is efficacy data on the ER-low-positive (1%-10%) group, with ER-low-positive
required in the pathology report, rendering it a category 2B patients reported to be a heterogeneous group with a natural
recommendation. history/biologic behavior often similar to ER-negative cancers,
individualized consideration of risks versus benefits of endocrine therapy
Adjuvant Systemic Therapy
and additional adjuvant therapies should be incorporated into decision-
After surgical treatment, adjuvant systemic therapy should be considered.
making. Patients with ER-negative, PR-positive cancers may also be
In patients with early-stage breast cancer, systemic adjuvant therapy is
considered for endocrine therapies, however, the efficacy data on this
administered to reduce risk of cancer recurrence. The decision is often
group are also limited. The same overall interpretation principles apply but
based on individual risk of relapse and predicted sensitivity to a particular
PR should be interpreted as either positive (if 1%–100% of cells have
treatment (eg, ER/PR and HER2 status). The decision to use systemic
nuclear staining) or negative (if <1% or 0% of cells have nuclear staining).
adjuvant therapy requires considering and balancing risk for disease
For the purposes of this guideline, any ER and/or PR-positive tumors is
recurrence with local therapy alone, the magnitude of benefit from
referred to as ‘hormone receptor (HR)-positive’, given that the majority of
applying adjuvant therapy, toxicity of the therapy, and comorbidity. The
all breast cancers are ER-positive or ER and PR-positive and the
decision-making process requires collaboration between the health care
subgroup of ER negative/PR-positive tumors are relatively uncommon.
team and patient.
The magnitude of risk reduction from adjuvant endocrine therapy is
Stratification for Systemic Adjuvant Therapy dependent on level of ER-expression and on recurrence score (RS) of
gene expression assay test results. Low level of ER expression is less
The NCCN Guidelines stratify, patients with breast cancer based on their
likely to benefit from endocrine therapy and a high RS will gain less benefit
HR- status and HER2 expression. Patients are then further stratified
with endocrine therapy alone versus those with low RS.
based on risk of disease recurrence based on anatomic and pathologic
characteristics (ie, tumor grade, tumor size, ALN status, angiolymphatic Patients with invasive breast cancers that are HR- positive should be
invasion). considered for adjuvant endocrine therapy regardless of patient age,
lymph node status, or whether adjuvant chemotherapy is to be
Adjuvant Systemic therapy for HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors administered.277 Selected studies suggest that HER2-positive breast
Patients with HR positive, HER2-negative tumors, receive adjuvant
cancers may be less sensitive to some endocrine therapies, although
endocrine therapy to reduce the risk of recurrence and those deemed at other studies have failed to confirm this finding.278-286 A retrospective
high risk for distant recurrence despite adjuvant endocrine therapy,
analysis of tumor blocks collected in the ATAC trial indicated that HER2
receive adjuvant chemotherapy. The NCCN Guidelines call for the
amplification is a marker of relative endocrine resistance independent of
determination of ER and PR content in all primary invasive breast type of endocrine therapy.287 However, given the favorable toxicity profile
cancers276 to determine whether a patient is a candidate for endocrine
of the available endocrine therapies, the panel recommends the use of
therapies. Patients with cancers with 1%–100% ER IHC staining are
MS-33
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
adjuvant endocrine therapy in the majority of patients with HR-positive breast cancer seen in the ATLAS trial with 10 versus 5 years of tamoxifen
breast cancer regardless of menopausal status, age, or HER2 status of therapy.292
the tumor.
Aromatase inhibitors: Several studies have evaluated aromatase inhibitors
Tamoxifen: The most firmly established adjuvant endocrine therapy is (AI) in the treatment of postmenopausal patients with early-stage breast
tamoxifen for both premenopausal and postmenopausal patients.59 In cancer. These studies have utilized AI as initial adjuvant therapy, as
patients with ER-positive breast cancer, adjuvant tamoxifen decreases the sequential therapy following 2 to 3 years of tamoxifen, or as extended
annual odds of recurrence by 41% and the annual odds of death by 31% therapy following 4.5 to 6 years of tamoxifen. The AIs are not active in the
irrespective of the use of chemotherapy, patient age, menopausal status, treatment of patients with functioning ovaries and should not be used in
or ALN status.59 In patients receiving both tamoxifen and chemotherapy, patients whose ovarian function cannot reliably be assessed owing to
chemotherapy should be given first, followed by sequential tamoxifen.288 treatment-induced amenorrhea.
Prospective randomized trials have demonstrated that 5 years of
tamoxifen is more effective than 1 to 2 years of tamoxifen.289,290 The results from two prospective, randomized, clinical trials have provided
evidence of an OS benefit for patients with early-stage breast cancer
The ATLAS trial randomly allocated pre- and postmenopausal patients to receiving initial endocrine therapy with tamoxifen followed sequentially by
5 or 10 years (extended therapy) of tamoxifen. The outcome analyses of anastrozole (HR, 0.53; 95% CI, 0.28–0.99; P = .045) or exemestane (HR,
6846 patients with ER-positive disease showed that by extending adjuvant 0.83; 95% CI, 0.69–1.00; P = .05 [excluding patients with ER-negative
treatment to 10 years, the risk of relapse and breast cancer-related disease]) when compared with tamoxifen as the only endocrine
mortality was reduced.291 The risk of recurrence during years 5 to 14 was therapy.293,294 In addition, the NCIC-CTG MA-17 trial demonstrated a
21.4% for patients receiving tamoxifen versus 25.1% for controls (absolute survival advantage with extended therapy with letrozole compared with
recurrence reduction 3.7%). Patients who received tamoxifen for 10 years placebo in patients with ALN-positive (but not lymph node-negative),
had a greater reduction in risk of progression, possibly due to a “carryover ER-positive breast cancer.295 Tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors have
effect.” The reduction in risk of recurrence was 0.90 (95% CI, 0.79–1.02) different side effect profiles. Both contribute to hot flashes and night
during 5 to 9 years of tamoxifen treatment and 0.75 (0.62–0.90) after 10 sweats and may cause vaginal dryness. AIs are more commonly
years of treatment. There were decreases in the incidence of contralateral associated with musculoskeletal symptoms, osteoporosis, and increased
breast cancer as well. Furthermore, reduced mortality was also apparent rate of bone fracture, while tamoxifen is associated with an increased risk
after completion of 10 years of treatment with tamoxifen. With regards to for uterine cancer and deep venous thrombosis.
toxicity, the most important adverse effects noted in all patients in the
Two studies have examined initial adjuvant endocrine treatment with either
ATLAS trial after with 10 years of tamoxifen treatment were an increased
risk for endometrial cancer and pulmonary embolism.291 The results of the tamoxifen or an AI. The ATAC trial demonstrated that anastrozole is
superior to tamoxifen or the combination of tamoxifen and anastrozole in
aTTom trial confirm the significant reduction in recurrence and death from
the adjuvant endocrine therapy of postmenopausal patients with
HR-positive breast cancer.296,297 With a median of 100 months follow-up,
MS-34
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
results in 5216 postmenopausal patients with HR-positive, early-stage significantly higher in the tamoxifen arm.305 In addition, a higher incidence
breast cancer enrolled in the ATAC trial demonstrated fewer recurrences of bone fracture was observed for patients in the letrozole arm compared
(HR for DFS, 0.85; 95% CI, 0.76–0.94; P = .003) with anastrozole with those in the tamoxifen arm (9.5% vs. 6.5%).306 After a longer
compared with tamoxifen.298 No difference in survival has been observed follow-up (median 71 months) no significant improvement in DFS was
(HR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.75–1.07; P = .2). Patients in the combined tamoxifen noted with either tamoxifen followed by letrozole or the reverse sequence
and anastrozole group gained no benefit over those in the tamoxifen as compared with letrozole alone (HR for tamoxifen followed by letrozole,
group, suggesting a possible deleterious effect from the weak estrogenic 1.05; 99% CI, 0.84–1.32; HR for letrozole followed by tamoxifen, 0.96;
effect of tamoxifen in patients with near complete elimination of 99% CI, 0.76–1.21).307
endogenous estrogen levels.297 ATAC trial sub-protocols show a lesser
effect of anastrozole compared with tamoxifen on endometrial tissue;299 Five trials have studied the use of tamoxifen for 2 to 3 years followed
sequentially by a third-generation AI versus continued tamoxifen in
similar effects of anastrozole and tamoxifen on quality of life, with most
postmenopausal patients. The Italian Tamoxifen Anastrozole (ITA) trial
patients reporting that overall quality of life was not significantly
impaired;300 a greater loss of bone mineral density with anastrozole;301 a randomized 426 postmenopausal patients with breast cancer who had
completed 2 to 3 years of tamoxifen to either continue tamoxifen or to
small pharmacokinetic interference of anastrozole in the presence of
tamoxifen of unclear significance;302 and no evidence for an interaction switch to anastrozole to complete a total of 5 years of endocrine
between prior chemotherapy and anastrozole.303
therapy.308 The HR for relapse strongly favored sequential treatment with
anastrozole (HR, 0.35; 95% CI, 0.18–0.68; P = .001) with a trend towards
BIG 1-98 is a randomized trial testing the use of tamoxifen alone for 5 fewer deaths (P = .10).308 Updated results from this study show the HR for
years, letrozole alone for 5 years, or tamoxifen for 2 years followed relapse-free survival as 0.56 (95% CI, 0.35–0.89; P = .01); P value for OS
sequentially by letrozole for 3 years, or letrozole for 2 years followed analysis remained at 0.1.309 The IES trial randomized 4742
sequentially by tamoxifen for 3 years. An early analysis compared postmenopausal patients with breast cancer who had completed a total of
tamoxifen alone versus letrozole alone, including those patients in the 2 to 3 years of tamoxifen to either continue tamoxifen or to switch to
sequential arms during their first 2 years of treatment only.304 With 8010 exemestane to complete a total of 5 years of endocrine therapy.310 The
patients included in the analysis, DFS was superior in the letrozole-treated results at a median of 55.7 months of follow-up demonstrated the
patients (HR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.70–0.93; log rank P = .003). No interaction superiority of sequential exemestane in DFS (HR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.66–
between PR expression and benefit was observed. No difference in OS 0.88; P = .0001) with a significant difference in OS in only patients with
was observed. A comparison of the cardiovascular side effects in the ER-positive tumors (HR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.69–1.00; log rank P = .05). A
tamoxifen and letrozole arms of the BIG 1-98 trial showed that the overall prospectively planned, combined analysis of 3224 patients enrolled in the
incidence of cardiac adverse events was similar (letrozole, 4.8%; ABCSG 8 trial and the ARNO 95 trial has also been reported.311 Patients
tamoxifen, 4.7%). However, the incidence of grade 3 to 5 cardiac adverse in this combined analysis had been randomized following 2 years of
events was significantly higher in the letrozole arm, and both the overall tamoxifen to complete 5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen or 3 years of
incidence and incidence of grade 3 to 5 thromboembolic events was anastrozole. With 28 months of median follow-up available, event-free
MS-35
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
survival was superior with crossover to anastrozole (HR, 0.60; 95% CI, is worth the additional toxicity (young age, high-grade tumor, lymph node
0.44–0.81; P = .0009). No statistically significant difference in survival has involvement). A balanced discussion of the risks and benefits associated
been observed. An analysis of the ARNO 95 trial alone after 58 months of with OFS is critical, including the potential side effects of premature
median follow-up demonstrated that switching from tamoxifen to menopause.
anastrozole was associated with significant increases in both DFS (HR,
0.66; 95% CI, 0.44–1.00; P = .049) and OS (HR, 0.53; 95% CI, 0.28–0.99; In two randomized trials (TEXT and SOFT), premenopausal patients with
P = .045).294 A meta-analysis of ABCSG 8, ARNO 95, and ITA studies HR-positive early-stage breast cancer were assigned to receive AI
showed significant improvement in OS (HR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.52-0.98; P = (exemestane) plus OFS or tamoxifen plus OFS for a period of 5 years.314
.04) with a switch to anastrozole.312 Suppression of ovarian estrogen production was achieved with the use of
GnRH agonist triptorelin, oophorectomy, or ovarian irradiation. The DFS
The TEAM trial compared treatment of exemestane alone versus
was 92.8% in the exemestane plus OFS as compared with 88.8% in the
sequential therapy of tamoxifen for 2.5 to 3.0 years followed by
tamoxifen plus OFS (HR for recurrence, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.55–0.80; P <
exemestane to complete 5 years of hormone therapy.313 At the end of 5 .001).314 The OS did not differ significantly between the two groups (HR for
years, 85% of patients in the sequential group versus 86% in the
death in the exemestane plus OFS group, 1.14; 95% CI, 0.86–1.51; P =
exemestane group were disease free (HR, 0.97; 95% CI, 0.88–1.08; P = .37).314
.60). This is consistent with the data from the BIG 1-98 trial,307 in which
tamoxifen followed by letrozole or the reverse sequence of letrozole
A 9-year median follow-up analysis of the TEXT-SOFT trials showed
followed by tamoxifen was not associated with significant differences in
sustained improvements in DFS with exemestane plus OFS versus
efficacy versus letrozole monotherapy after a median follow-up of 71
tamoxifen plus OFS (HR- 0.77; 95% CI, 0.67 to 0.90) and in distant
months.
recurrence-free interval but not OS (HR, 0.98; 95% CI, 0.79 to 1.22).315
Ultimately, with longer follow-up (median = 13 years), an OS was
The NCCN panel finds no meaningful differences in terms of efficacy or
demonstrated for OFS + exemestane in patients with high-risk of
toxicity between the available AIs: anastrozole, letrozole, and exemestane.
recurrence, but not in .exemestane plus OFS in patients with lower risk of
All three have shown similar anti-tumor efficacy and toxicity profiles in
relapse not receiving chemotherapy.316
randomized studies in the adjuvant settings.
Ovarian Function Suppression and Endocrine Therapy: The benefit of OFS in premenopausal patients with high-risk of recurrence
Ovarian function suppression (OFS) is achieved with a was also seen in the results of the ASTRRA trial. This trial studied
gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist, oophorectomy, or premenopausal patients (n= 1483) with HR-positive breast cancer younger
ovarian irradiation. Available GnRH agonists in the United States include than 45 years treated with surgery and who received chemotherapy (as
goserelin and leuprolide. OFS is generally considered in those who are adjuvant or preoperative therapy) and received 5 years of tamoxifen alone
premenopausal and for tumors with high enough recurrence risk where the or 5 years of tamoxifen with OFS for 2 years. The 8-year DFS with
additional absolute decrease in recurrence compared with tamoxifen alone
MS-36
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
tamoxifen plus OFS was 85.4% versus 80.2% with tamoxifen alone (HR- 0.52, 95% CI 0.45-0.61) and an improved OS (HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.52-0.71)
0.67; 95% CI, 0.51 to 0.87).317 compared with placebo.320
The results of the TEXT-SOFT trials suggest an optimal OFS duration of In a separate cohort analysis of the MA-17 trial, the efficacy of letrozole
5 years and data from the ASTRA trial suggests a benefit with a minimum versus placebo was evaluated after un-blinding of the study in the 1579
of at least 2 years of OFS. The NCCN Panel has included OFS plus patients who had been randomly assigned to placebo after 4.5 to 6 years
endocrine therapy for 5 years as an option for premenopausal patients of tamoxifen.321,322 The median time since completion of tamoxifen was 2.8
with HR–positive breast cancer at higher risk of recurrence (eg, young years. Both DFS and distant DFS were significantly improved in the group
age, high-grade tumor, lymph-node involvement). Premenopausal patients receiving letrozole, thereby providing some evidence for the efficacy of
wishing to continue adjuvant endocrine therapy after ovarian suppression letrozole in patients who had received 4.5 to 6 years of tamoxifen therapy
is stopped should continue with tamoxifen versus AI. followed by no endocrine therapy for an extended period. A formal
quality-of-life analysis demonstrated reasonable preservation of quality of
Duration of Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy
life during extended endocrine therapy, although patients may experience
ongoing menopausal symptoms and loss of bone mineral density.323,324 No
Adjuvant endocrine therapy is recommended for a minimum of 5 years. A
data are available regarding use of aromatase inhibitors for more than 5
recent retrospective analysis by the Oxford University studied risk of
years or long-term toxic effects from extended treatment. In addition, the
recurrence for years 5 through 20 after 5 years of endocrine therapy. 318
ATLAS trial data do not provide clear direction for treatment of
These data showed a considerable risk of recurrence between years 5
postmenopausal patients.291 There are no data available to suggest that
and 20 in these patients treated with initial 5 years of endocrine therapy.318
an AI for 5 years is better for long-term benefit than 10 years of tamoxifen.
Data has now emerged showing benefit of extended endocrine therapy in
improving DFS.
In the extension study of ABCSG trial 6, HR-positive postmenopausal
patients received 5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen and were randomized to 3
Data from the ATLAS trial (discussed above)291 and the aTTom trial
years of anastrozole or no further therapy.325 At a median follow-up of 62.3
confirm greater reduction in recurrence and death from breast cancer with
months, patients who received anastrozole (n = 387) were reported to
10 versus 5 years of tamoxifen therapy.292
have a statistically significantly reduced risk of recurrence compared with
patients who received no further treatment (n = 469; HR, 0.62; 95% CI,
For those treated initially with adjuvant tamoxifen, there is evidence for
0.40–0.96; P = .031).325
benefit from extended adjuvant endocrine therapy from several
randomized trials. Results of the MA-17 trial in 5187 patients who had
The differences in design and patient populations among the studies of the
completed 4.5 to 6 years of adjuvant tamoxifen demonstrated that
aromatase inhibitors do not allow for the direct comparison of the results of
extended therapy with letrozole provides benefit in postmenopausal
these studies. A meta-analysis of adjuvant trials of aromatase inhibitors
patients with HR-positive, early-stage breast cancer.295,319 With a median
versus tamoxifen alone versus after 2 or 3 years of tamoxifen documented
follow-up of 64 months, letrozole was associated with improved DFS (HR
lower recurrence rates with the aromatase inhibitor-containing regimen,
MS-37
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
with no clear impact on OS.326 It is not known whether initial, sequential, or years. In postmenopausal patients, the use of tamoxifen alone for 5 years
extended use of adjuvant aromatase inhibitors is the optimal strategy. (category 1) or up to 10 years is limited to those who decline or who have
a contraindication to AIs.
In patients initially treated with an AI, a randomized phase III trial
Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy for Premenopausal Patients: If
(MA17.R) evaluated the effects of extending adjuvant AI therapy from 5 to
premenopausal at diagnosis, the NCCN Panel recommend 5 years of
10 years.327 Postmenopausal patients who had completed 4.5 to 6 years
tamoxifen alone (category 1) or tamoxifen with OFS (category 1) or OFS
of therapy with an AI (with a median duration of prior tamoxifen of 5
plus AI for 5 years (category 1). Patients who are premenopausal at
years), were randomized to letrozole or placebo for an additional 5
years.327 Improvement was seen in five-year DFS in those receiving diagnosis and who become amenorrheic with chemotherapy may have
continued estrogen production from the ovaries without menses.
letrozole compared to those who received placebo (95% [95% CI
Menopausal status cannot be determined while receiving OFS. AI can
93 - 96%] vs. 91% [95% CI 89 -93%]). The annual rate of contralateral
stimulate ovarian function. To assure a true postmenopausal status, serial
breast cancer reported was lower with letrozole (0.49% vs. 0.21%; HR
assessment of circulating LH, FSH, and estradiol is mandatory when
0.42, 95% CI 0.22-0.81%). However, longer duration of AI resulted in more
considering this subset for AI therapy.330,331 Frequency of testing of
frequent bone-related adverse effects compared with those who received
estradiol and FSH/LH levels should be individualized.
placebo and no improvement was observed with respect to OS.
Bone-related adverse effects included bone pain (18% vs. 14%), fractures
After 5 years of initial endocrine therapy, for patients who are
(14% vs. 9%), and new-onset osteoporosis (11% vs. 6%).327 Patients with
postmenopausal at that time (including those who have become
high-risk of recurrence (eg. those with lymph node involvement) may
postmenopausal during the 5 years of tamoxifen therapy), the NCCN
benefit from extended AI duration (7.5–10 years total).328,329
Panel recommends considering extended therapy with an AI for up to 5
years (category 1) or based on the data from the ATLAS trial considering
NCCN Recommendations: The decision of whether or not to extend
tamoxifen for an additional 5 years. For those who remain premenopausal
adjuvant treatment based on the evidence available should be
after the initial 5 years of tamoxifen, the panel recommends considering
individualized. When considering endocrine therapy, the Panel
continuing up to 10 years of tamoxifen therapy.
recommends the following adjuvant endocrine therapy options for patients
with early-stage breast cancer.
Additional considerations during Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy: Symptom
management for patients on adjuvant endocrine therapies often requires
Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy for Postmenopausal Patients: The NCCN
treatment of hot flashes and the treatment of concurrent depression.
Panel recommends AI as initial adjuvant therapy for 5 years (category 1);
and tamoxifen for 2 to 3 years followed by one of the following options: an
Venlafaxine, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) has
AI to complete 5 years of adjuvant endocrine therapy (category 1) or 5
been studied and is an effective intervention in decreasing hot flashes.332-
years of AI therapy (category 2B); or tamoxifen for 4.5 to 6 years followed
335 There is evidence suggesting that concomitant use of tamoxifen with
by 5 years of AI (category 1) or consideration of tamoxifen for up to 10
certain SSRIs (eg, paroxetine, fluoxetine) may decrease plasma levels of
MS-38
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
endoxifen, an active metabolite of tamoxifen.336,337 These SSRIs/SNRIs panel discourages the selective ER modulators to treat osteoporosis or
may interfere with the enzymatic conversion of tamoxifen to endoxifen by osteopenia in patients with breast cancer. The use of a bisphosphonate
inhibiting a particular isoform of cytochrome P-450 (CYP450) enzyme. (oral/IV) or denosumab is recommended to maintain or to improve bone
Individuals with wild-type CYP2D6 alleles are classified as extensive mineral density and reduce risk of fractures in postmenopausal (natural or
metabolizers of tamoxifen. Those with one or two variant alleles with induced) patients receiving adjuvant AI therapy. Optimal duration of either
either reduced or no activity are designated as intermediate therapy has not been established. The optimal duration and benefits
metabolizers and poor metabolizers, respectively. The mild CYP2D6 beyond 3 years is not known. Factors to consider for duration of anti-
inhibitors such as citalopram, escitalopram, sertraline, and venlafaxine osteoporosis therapy include bone mineral density, response to therapy,
appear to have no or only minimal effect on tamoxifen metabolism.330,338,339 and risk factors for continued bone loss or fracture. There are case reports
of spontaneous fractures after denosumab discontinuation. Patients
With respect to CYP2D6 mutation status, a large retrospective study of treated with bisphosphonates or denosumab should undergo a dental
1325 patients found that time to disease recurrence was significantly examination with preventive dentistry prior to the initiation of therapy, and
shortened in poor metabolizers of tamoxifen.340 However, the BIG 1-98 should take supplemental calcium and vitamin D.
trial reported on the outcome based on CYP2D6 genotype in a subset of
postmenopausal patients with endocrine-responsive, early invasive breast The incremental benefit of adding adjuvant chemotherapy to endocrine
cancer. The study found no correlation between CYP2D6 allelic status and therapy in patients with low clinical risk of recurrence such as those with
disease outcome or between CYP2D6 allelic status and tamoxifen-related very small, low grade, lymph node-negative tumors is relatively small.346
adverse effects.341 A genetic analysis of the ATAC trial found no The decision whether or not to administer adjuvant chemotherapy in
association between CYP2D6 genotype and clinical outcomes.342,343 patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors is based on many
Given the limited and conflicting evidence at this time,344 the NCCN Breast factors including lymph node status, size, grade, lymphovascular invasion,
Cancer Panel does not recommend CYP2D6 testing as a tool to determine age, comorbid conditions and/or the results of a gene expression profile
the optimal adjuvant endocrine strategy. This recommendation is test using multigene assays.
consistent with the ASCO Guidelines.345 When prescribing a selective
serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), it is reasonable to avoid potent and Several commercially-available gene-based assays are useful in
intermediate CYP2D6 inhibiting agents, particularly paroxetine and determining prognosis by predicting distant recurrence, local recurrence,
fluoxetine, if an appropriate alternative exists. or survival. Of these, only one, the 21-gene assay (Oncotype Dx) has
been clinically validated for predicting the benefit of adding adjuvant
For those on tamoxifen, while age-appropriate gynecologic screening is chemotherapy to further reduce the risk of recurrence.
recommended, the use of routine annual pelvic ultrasound is not
recommended. For those receiving AI or who experience ovarian failure 21-gene assay (Oncotype DX) in Node-negative, HR-positive,
secondary to treatment should have monitoring of bone health with a bone HER2-negative disease: The 21-gene recurrence score (RS) is one of the
mineral density determination at baseline and periodically thereafter. .The most validated multigene assays. The RS is helpful in determining the
MS-39
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
prognosis in patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors treated with a RS of ≤11, were found to have a 5-year disease-free survival of94.4%
endocrine therapy alone by predicting locoregional and distant when treated with endocrine therapy alone.354 In a secondary analysis of
recurrence.347-349 This assay has also been validated to predict the benefit a prospective registry of patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative,
from adding adjuvant chemotherapy to adjuvant endocrine therapy for lymph node-positive tumors, the 5-year risk of distant recurrence in
patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, node-negative breast patients with a RS of <18, treated with endocrine therapy alone was
cancer.286,350,351 2.7%.355 These results suggest that in patients with limited nodal disease
(1-3 positive lymph nodes) and a low RS, the absolute benefit from
Among patients with T1b/c and T2, lymph node-negative, HR-positive, chemotherapy is likely to be very small.355,356
HER2-negative tumors with RS between 0-10, the risk of distant
recurrence is low and these patients derive no incremental benefit from There is a clear benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with node
the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to endocrine therapy.286,352 At the positive, HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors, if the RS is high (≥ 31). In a
other end of the spectrum, patients with lymph node-negative, secondary analysis of the SWOG 8814 trial of patients with HR-positive,
HR-positive, HER2-negative cancers with high RS (≥ 31) have a higher lymph node-positive tumors, high RS (≥31) was predictive of
risk of distant recurrence and secondary analyses of prospective studies chemotherapy benefit. This study evaluated breast cancer specimens from
demonstrate a clear benefit from adjuvant chemotherapy.286,353 node-positive, HR-positive postmenopausal patients (n= 367) randomized
to endocrine therapy with tamoxifen alone or chemotherapy with CAF
For those with intermediate RS (11-25), the TAILORx trial of followed by tamoxifen.350 Compared with tamoxifen alone, treatment with
postmenopausal patients (n= 6711) with lymph node-negative,
CAF among patients with a high RS (≥31) resulted in improved 10-year
HR-positive, HER-2 negative breast cancer, showed similar disease-free
DFS (55% vs. 43%; HR 0.59, 95% CI 0.35-1.01) and OS (73% vs. 54%;
survival rates at 9-years in those who received adjuvant chemotherapy HR 0.56, 95% CI 0.31-1.02).350
followed by endocrine therapy compared with endocrine therapy alone.353
However, in a subset analysis, patients 50 years of age or younger with The Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) S1007 RxPONDER trial,357
RS 16-25 had lower rates of distance recurrence with the addition of assigned patients with 1-3 lymph node-positive nodes, HR-positive,
adjuvant chemotherapy to endocrine therapy.353 The cutoff for low, HER2-negative breast cancer and a RS ≤ 25 to standard endocrine
intermediate, and high RS was different in TAILORx versus NSABP B-20. therapy with or without adjuvant chemotherapy. The results showed that
The NSABP-B20 was the first trial to validate the 21-gene assay both as a the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to endocrine therapy improved
prognostic as well as a predictive tool and identified RS cut-offs to predict invasive disease–free survival among premenopausal—but not
the magnitude of chemotherapy benefit in patients with node-negative, postmenopausal—women with hormone receptor–positive, HER2-
HR-positive breast cancer.7 negative, node-positive breast cancer and a 21-gene assay recurrence
score up to 25.358
21-gene assay (Oncotype DX) in Node- positive, HR-positive,
HER2-negative disease: In the West German Plan B study, patients (n = 70-gene assay (MammaPrint): Results from the randomized MINDACT
110) with lymph node-positive, HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors, and trial,359 demonstrated that the 70-gene assay can identify a subset of
MS-40
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
patients who have a low likelihood of distant recurrence despite high-risk In a subgroup analysis by nodal status, among node-negative patients
clinical features (based on tumor size, grade, nodal status). In this trial, with high clinical risk/low genomic risk, the 5-year rate of survival with no
79% had lymph node-negative disease and 21% had 1-3 positive lymph distant metastasis was 95.7% (95% CI, 93.0 to 97.4) in those who
nodes and all patients underwent risk assessment by clinical criteria (using received adjuvant chemotherapy compared with 93.2% (95% CI, 90.1 to
Adjuvant! Online) and genomic risk assessment by the 70-gene assay. 95.4) in those who did not receive chemotherapy.359 Among patients with
1-3 positive lymph nodes, the rates of survival without distant metastases
Patients with low-risk disease according to both clinical criteria and
were 96.3% (95% CI, 93.1 to 98.1) in those who received adjuvant
genomic assay results did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy, whereas
chemotherapy versus 95.6 (95% CI, 92.7 to 97.4) in those who did not
patients categorized as high-risk by both assessments received receive adjuvant chemotherapy.359 These data suggest that the additional
chemotherapy. Patients with discordant results (i.e., either high clinical
benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with high-clinical risk/low
risk/low genomic risk or low clinical risk/high genomic risk) were
genomic risk is likely to be small.
randomized to the chemotherapy group or the no-chemotherapy group on
the basis of either the clinical result or the genomic result. The primary 50-gene assay (PAM50): The 50-gene assay (PAM-50) risk of recurrence
outcome of the study was met with the demonstration that among those (ROR) score stratifies patients with HR-positive disease into high,
with high clinical risk/low genomic risk, the 5-year rate of survival without medium, and low risk groups. Several studies have demonstrated the
distant metastasis in those did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy was prognostic value of ROR score in estimating risk of disease recurrence.360-
94.7% (95% CI, 92.5 to 96.2).359 362
In the intention-to-treat population, among patients at high clinical risk/low In a study from the Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group database,
genomic risk by the 70-gene assay, the 5-year rate of survival with no patients with lymph node node-negative tumors and low ROR had a
distant metastasis in those who received chemotherapy was 95.9% (95% distant recurrence risk of 5.0% (95% CI, 2.9% to 8.0%) whereas tumors
CI, 94.0 to 97.2) versus 94.4% (95% CI, 92.3 to 95.9) in those who did not with high ROR had a distant recurrence risk of 17.8% (95% CI, 14.0% to
receive chemotherapy (adjusted HR for distant metastasis or death with 22.0%).361 Based on these analyses, patients with T1 and T2,
chemotherapy vs.no chemotherapy 0.78; 95% CI, 0.50 to 1.21).359 Among HR-positive, HER2- negative, lymph node-negative tumors, a ROR score
patients at low clinical risk/ high genomic risk, 5-year survival with no in the low range, regardless of tumor size, places the individual into the
distant metastasis was 95.8% with chemotherapy (95% CI, 92.9 to 97.6), same prognostic category as those with T1a–T1b, N0, M0 tumors.361
compared with a rate of 95.0% (95% CI, 91.8 to 97.0%) without
In patients with 1-3 lymph-node positive, HR-positive, HER2-negative
chemotherapy (adjusted HR for distant metastasis or death with
disease with low-risk of recurrence score, the distant recurrence risk was
chemotherapy vs. no chemotherapy,1.17; 95% CI, 0.59 to 2.28). These
less than 3.5% at 10 years with endocrine therapy alone.361 In TransATAC
data suggest that the results of the 70-gene signature do not provide
study, no distant recurrence was seen at 10 years in a similar group.362
evidence for making recommendations regarding chemotherapy for
patients at low clinical risk.359
MS-41
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
12-gene assay (EndoPredict): This assay utilizes 12-genes to calculate a trials showed that in patients with HR-positive T1–T3 tumors that are
prognostic score. This assay appears to be useful in identifying a lymph-node negative or positive, those that had a high BCI (H/I)
subgroup of patients with ER-positive, HER2-negative tumors with very demonstrated significant improvements in DFS when adjuvant endocrine
low risk of recurrence without adjuvant chemotherapy and helpful in therapy was extended, compared to the control arm.366-368 Considering the
identifying patients at low risk for a late recurrence.363 Based on results of ability of the multigene assays to predict benefit of adjuvant systemic
two Austrian Breast Cancer Study Group trials- ABCSG-6 and ABCSG-8, chemotherapy and ability to determine prognosis by predicting risk of
patients with HR-positive, HER-2 negative, and lymph-node node-negative distant recurrence, the NCCN Panel has summarized the treatment
disease with a low-risk score by the 12-gene assay had risk of distant implications based on risk scores and nodal status.
recurrence of 4% at 10 years.363 The prognostic value of the risk score
from the 12-gene assay was found to be independent of conventional Multigene Assays for Axillary Lymph Node-Negative HR-Positive,
clinicopathological factors. Patients with T1 and T2 HR-positive, HER2-Negative Tumors
HER2-negative, and lymph node-negative tumors, a 12-gene low-risk
Small tumors (up to 0.5 cm in greatest diameter) that do not involve the
score, regardless of T size, places the tumor into the same prognostic
lymph nodes have a favorable prognosis so adjuvant chemotherapy is not
category as T1a–T1b, N0, M0.
recommended. According to the NCCN Panel, adjuvant endocrine therapy
In TransATAC study, patients with 1-3 positive nodes in the low-risk group may be considered in this group of patients to reduce the risk for a second
had a 5.6% risk of distant recurrence at 10 years,362 suggesting that contralateral breast cancer, as well as the small benefit in reducing the risk
chemotherapy would be of limited benefit in these patients. of local/regional and distant recurrence.(Category 2B).
Breast Cancer Index: The Breast Cancer Index (BCI) is a combination of For patients with invasive ductal or lobular tumors greater than 0.5 cm in
two profiles, the HOXB13-to-IL17BR expression ratio (H:I ratio) and the diameter and no lymph node involvement (lymph node node-negative), the
Molecular Grade Index (MGI). Compared with clinical prognostic factors NCCN panel recommends strongly considering the 21-gene RT-PCR
(eg, age, tumor size, tumor grade, and lymph node status), the H:I ratio assay to help estimate likelihood of recurrence and benefit from
has been shown to be prognostic in the setting of adjuvant tamoxifen chemotherapy (category 1). The panel has noted that on an exploratory
monotherapy.362,364 The addition of MGI to H:I was determined to provide analysis from the TAILORx study,353 adjuvant chemotherapy may be
additional prognostic discrimination, leading to the BCI assay.364 In a considered in patients 50 years of age or younger with a 21-gene RS of
secondary analysis of the ATAC trial, BCI was prognostic in node negative 16-25. Also, patients with T1b tumors with low grade histology should be
breast cancer for both early (years 0-5) and late (years 5-10) distant considered for endocrine monotherapy, as the TAILORx study353 did not
recurrence.365 For patients with T1 and T2 HR-positive, HER2-negative, include patients with such tumors.
and lymph node-negative tumors, a BCI in the low-risk range, regardless
The panel notes that other prognostic multigene assays may be
of T size, places the tumor into the same prognostic category as T1a-T1b,
considered to help estimate risk of recurrence, but these assays have not
N0, M0. Secondary analyses of the MA.17, Trans-aTTom, and IDEAL
been validated to predict the benefit of systemic chemotherapy. Also,
MS-42
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
amongst the other assays, the panel has listed the 70-gene assay as a For those who are candidates for systemic adjuvant chemotherapy based
category 1 option based on the results of the prospective MINDACT359 trial on clinical characteristics, tumor stage, and pathology, the panel
demonstrating the ability of the 70-gene assay to identify a good genomic recommends consideration of multigene assays to assess prognosis as a
risk population despite a high clinical risk, in whom chemotherapy may be tool to assist with treatment decision making. The panel notes in those
omitted without a detrimental effect. High clinical risk in the MINDACT trial with N1mi and N1 tumors, while multigene assays have yet to be proven
was defined for grade 1 tumors as >3 cm N0 or T2N1, for grade 2 tumors to be predictive for adjuvant chemotherapy benefit, they are prognostic
T2N0-1, and for grade 3 tumors T1c-2N0-1. and can be used to identify low-risk patients who are likely to derive little
or no absolute benefit from addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to adjuvant
Furthermore, given no difference in outcomes with or without
endocrine therapy. A secondary analysis of the prospective SWOG 8814
chemotherapy in the discordant low clinical risk/high genomic risk group,
trial using the 21-gene assay demonstrated no benefit for chemotherapy
the MINDACT study suggests that the 70-gene panel is not useful guiding
for patients with 1-3 involved axillary lymph nodes and a low RS, and a
systemic chemotherapy decisions in this subgroup of patients.
significant benefit for the addition of adjuvant chemotherapy in those with
high-RS (≥ 31).350 The phase III RxPONDER trial prospectively
Since results of different assays may not be concordant with each other
demonstrated that for premenopausal patients with hormone receptor–
and these assays have not been compared head-to-head prospectively,
positive, HER2-negative, node-positive breast cancer , a 21-gene assay
clinicians should only order one of the available assays for a specific
Recurrence Scores up to 25 had an addition benefit of adjuvant
patient and tumor.
chemotherapy to endocrine therapy for improving invasive disease–free
Multigene Assays for Axillary Lymph Node-Positive HR- Positive, survival .358 In the MINDACT trial, among patients with 1-3 positive nodes
HER2-Negative Tumors who had a high clinical risk of recurrence but low risk by the 70-gene
assay, the rates of survival were similar between those who received
For patients with four or more involved nodes the panel recommends adjuvant chemotherapy in addition to adjuvant endocrine therapy versus
systemic adjuvant chemotherapy followed by endocrine therapy (category those received adjuvant endocrine therapy alone, suggesting that
1). chemotherapy could be omitted in this group.359 Other multigene assays
have not proven to be predictive of benefit from chemotherapy.
Patients with less than four involved nodes or with pN1mi and less than or
equal to 2 mm axillary node metastasis, are most often candidates for For those who are candidates for systemic adjuvant chemotherapy based
chemotherapy in addition to endocrine therapy. The panel recommends on clinical characteristics, tumor stage, and pathology, if multigene assay
that clinical decision making for adjuvant chemotherapy be based on is not available, the panel recommends systemic adjuvant chemotherapy
elements of clinical risk stratification such as clinical characteristics, tumor followed by endocrine therapy (category 1).
stage, pathology and comorbid conditions. If the patient is not a candidate
for chemotherapy, the panel recommends adjuvant endocrine therapy Adjuvant Targeted therapies for HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors
alone (category 2A).
MS-43
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Adjuvant therapies are rapidly evolving and CDK 4/6 inhibitors and PARP year invasive DFS for the olaparib group versus placebo group was 82.7%
inhibitors are now indicated in this setting. versus 75.4% (95% CI 3.0% - 11.5%) and 4-year distant DFS was 86.5%
versus 79.1% (95% CI 3.6% -11.3%).373
Adjuvant CDK 4/6 inhibitors: In the MonarchE study, the addition of 2
years of abemaciclib to endocrine therapy reduced the absolute risk of According to the NCCN panel, addition of adjuvant olaparib for 1 year may
recurrence at 4 years by 6.4% (HR 0.664, 95% CI 0.578-0.762, P < be considered for those with germline BRCA 1/2 mutations in patients with
.0001) in patients with HR-positive/HER2-negative, high-risk breast HR-positive, HER2-negative tumors with ≥4 positive lymph nodes after
cancer, defined as 4 or more pathologically involved lymph nodes adjuvant chemotherapy or residual disease after preoperative therapy and
confirmed preoperatively and/or at surgery, or 1–3 pathologically involved a clinical stage, pathologic stage, ER status, and tumor grade (CPS+EG)
lymph nodes with additional high risk features (grade 3 or size ≥5 cm score ≥3 (category 2A).
based on pre-operative imaging and/or pathologically at surgery).369
Adjuvant olaparib may be used concurrently with endocrine therapy.
Two trials of palbociclib as adjuvant therapy in HR-positive, HER2–
In patients eligible for both adjuvant olaparib and abemaciclib, the optimal
negative early breast cancer did not show benefit of adding palbociclib to
sequencing is not known. (For sequencing of olaparib and/or abemaciclib
adjuvant endocrine therapy in terms of invasive disease-free survival.370,371
with RT, see BINV-I on nccn.org)
The results from the NATALEE trial reported after a median follow-up of
Adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy
34 months, showed a statistically significant improvement (3.3%) in
Antiresorptive agents (bisphosphonates and denosumab) have an
invasive disease-free survival with the addition of ribociclib to adjuvant
established role as preventative and therapeutic agents for the
endocrine therapy (HR-0.75, 95% CI 0.62-0.91, P = .003).) for stage II and
management of osteoporosis, hypercalcemia of malignancy, and bone
stage III HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer.372 Additional follow-up
metastases.
is needed to characterize the long-term efficacy of ribociclib in this setting.
Bisphosphonates: In the Austrian Breast and Colorectal Cancer Study
According to the current guidelines, 2 years of adjuvant CDK 4/6 therapy
Group trial-12 (ABCSG-12) trial, for patients over 40 years, zoledronic acid
with abemaciclib should be considered in combination with endocrine
significantly reduced the risk of recurrence by 34% (HR, 0.66; P=.014) and
therapy in patients with HR-positive/HER2-negative, high-risk breast
the risk of death by 49% (HR, 0.51; P=.020). However, no improvement
cancer (as detailed above). This is a category 1, preferred option for this
was seen in either DFS or OS in this post hoc analysis among patients
setting.
under 40 years.374 In a planned subgroup analysis of the AZURE trial,
zoledronic acid improved DFS in patients who were more than 5 years
Adjuvant Olaparib: In patients with germline BRCA 1/2 mutations and
since menopause at trial entry.375 A meta-analysis of data from seven
high-risk HER2-negative tumors, the results of the OlympiA trial showed
adjuvant bisphosphonate trials (AZURE, ABCSG-12, ZO-FAST, Z-FAST,
that the 4-year OS in the group that received 1 year of adjuvant olaparib
EZO-FAST, NSABP-B34, GAIN), including only those known to be over 50
was 89.8% and 86.4% in the placebo group (95% CI -0.1% -6.8%). The 4-
years, postmenopausal, or with ovarian suppression, showed a significant
MS-44
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
benefit for the use of adjuvant bisphosphonates in patients with a Adjuvant Therapy for HER2-negative tumors
low-estrogen state and early-stage breast cancer.376 More recently, the Several combination chemotherapy regimens are appropriate to consider
Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group (EBTCG) conducted a for HR-positive or negative and HER2-negative tumors. All adjuvant
meta-analysis of all randomized adjuvant bisphosphonate studies (26 chemotherapy regimens listed in the NCCN Guidelines have been
studies) and reported convincing evidence that adjuvant bisphosphonates evaluated in phase III clinical trials and are category 1 unless otherwise
provide benefits to postmenopausal (natural or induced) patients with noted.
breast cancer.377 With bisphosphonate therapy, the greatest improvement
was seen in bone recurrence (RR=0.83, P = .004) and bone fractures Preferred Regimens
(RR=0.85, P = .02). No effect was seen on distant recurrence outside
Regimens listed as preferred include dose-dense doxorubicin and
bone (RR =0.98, P =0.69).377 In premenopausal patients, bisphosphonate
cyclophosphamide (AC) followed or preceded by paclitaxel either weekly
therapy did not seem to have a significant effect on bone recurrence.
or biweekly; docetaxel plus cyclophosphamide (TC); olaparib for germline
However, in postmenopausal patients, zoledronic acid significantly
BRCA 1/2 mutations; pembrolizumab for high-risk ER- disease; and
reduced bone recurrence (3.4% vs. 4.5%, RR=0.73, 99% CI 0.53 to 1.00);
capecitabine for residual ER- disease after preoperative chemotherapy.
the difference in breast cancer mortality was not statistically significant
(7.1% vs. 7.9%, RR=0.88, 99% CI 0.69 to 1.11).377
Meta-analysis from Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group
(EBCTCG) has shown that anthracycline and taxane-based combination
Denosumab: In the adjuvant setting, the ABCSG-18 trial studied the effect
chemotherapy reduces the risk of breast cancer mortality compared with
of denosumab in postmenopausal patients treated with adjuvant AIs and
no chemotherapy. The use of dose-dense schedules has shown to further
showed a reduction in clinical fractures (HR 0.5, P < .0001), which was the
reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence or death without increasing
primary endpoint of this study.378 The final analysis after a median follow-
mortality. 381
up of 8 years continued to show a benefit with denosumab. Adjuvant
denosumab improved bone metastasis-free survival (88.9 vs. 86.4%; HR,
The results of two randomized trials comparing AC chemotherapy with or
0.81; 95% CI, 0.65 to 1.00) and OS (90.9 vs. 89.9%; HR, 0.80; 95% CI,
without sequential paclitaxel chemotherapy in patients with axillary
0.64 to 1.01).379 In contrast, results of the phase III trial (D-Care) trial failed
node-positive breast cancer suggest improved disease-free rates and
to demonstrate a difference in bone metastasis-free survival in those
results from one of the trials showed an improvement in OS, with the
receiving denosumab versus placebo.380 addition of paclitaxel.382,383 On retrospective analysis, the apparent
advantage of the paclitaxel-containing regimen appears greater in patients
Due to these conflicting results from phase III trials, denosumab is
with ER-negative breast cancers.
currently not recommended in the adjuvant setting.379 The panel
recommends considering adjuvant bisphosphonate therapy for risk
A randomized trial evaluated the use of concurrent versus sequential
reduction of distant metastasis for 3–5 years in patients with high-risk
chemotherapy (doxorubicin followed by paclitaxel followed by
node negative or node-positive tumors.
cyclophosphamide vs. doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide followed by
MS-45
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
paclitaxel) given either every 2 weeks with filgrastim support or every 3 and/or taxane-based) preoperative chemotherapy. The results showed
weeks. The results show no significant difference between the two improved DFS (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.53-0.92, P = .01) and OS (HR for
chemotherapy regimens but demonstrate a 26% reduction in hazard of death 0.59, 95% CI 0.39-0.90, P = .01) with adjuvant capecitabine. The
recurrence (P = .01) and a 31% reduction in the hazard of death (P = .013) OS was higher in those with TNBC (HR for death, 0.52). Results of two
for the dose-dense regimens.384 other similar trials with adjuvant capecitabine have showed a similar
impact with adjuvant capecitabine in patients with TNBC with no significant
The ECOG E1199 study was a four-arm trial that randomized 4950 impact in those with HR-positive disease.388,389 Based on the above trial
patients to receive AC chemotherapy followed by either paclitaxel or
results, the NCCN panel has included adjuvant capecitabine an adjuvant
docetaxel given by either an every-3-week schedule or a weekly
therapy option for those with TNBC and residual disease after
schedule.385 In a secondary series of comparisons, weekly paclitaxel was
preoperative therapy. For those with germline BRCA 1/2 mutations and
superior to every-3-week paclitaxel in DFS (HR, 1.27; 95% CI, 1.03–1.57;
TNBC, according to the NCCN panel, based on the results of OlympiA trial
P = .006) and OS (HR, 1.32; 95% CI, 1.02–1.72; P = .01), and
(discussed in section adjuvant therapy for HR-positive, HER2-negative
every-3-week docetaxel was superior to every-3-week paclitaxel in DFS
disease) adjuvant olaparib for 1 y may be considered if tumors ≥ pT2 or ≥
(HR, 1.23; 95% CI, 1.00–1.52; P = .02) but not in OS.385 Based on these
pN1 disease after adjuvant chemotherapy or in those with residual disease
results, as well as the findings from the CALGB trial 9741 that showed
after preoperative chemotherapy (catgeory1). Patients in the OlympiA trial
dose-dense AC followed by paclitaxel every 2 weeks to have a survival
did not receive capecitabine; thus, there are no data on sequencing or to
benefit when compared with the regimen of AC followed by every-3-week
guide selection of one agent over the other. (For sequencing of
paclitaxel,384 the every-3-week paclitaxel regimen has been removed from
capecitabine or Olaparib with RT, see BINV-I on nccn.org)
the guidelines.
If pembrolizumab was given in combination with chemotherapy in the
Combination TC was compared with AC chemotherapy in a trial that
preoperative setting, based on the KEYNOTE-522 trial data, the panel
randomized 1016 patients with stage I to III breast cancer.386 At a median recommends adjuvant pembrolizumab.274
follow-up of 7 years, overall DFS (81% vs. 75%; HR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.56–
0.98; P = .033) and OS (87% vs. 82%; HR, 0.69; 95% CI, 0.50–0.97; P = Other Recommended Regimens
.032) were significantly improved with TC compared with AC. Non-
Other recommended regimens included in the guidelines include: AC;
anthracycline, taxane-based regimen, such as TC may be preferred
epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (EC); docetaxel, doxorubicin, and
options in patients for whom anthracyclines are contraindicated.
cyclophosphamide (TAC); paclitaxel + carboplatin (various schedules);
Residual disease after preoperative systemic therapy indicates higher risk and docetaxel + carboplatin.
(20% to 30%) of disease relapse.256,387 CREATE-X, a multicenter, open-
A trial compared 2 dose levels of EC chemotherapy with CMF
label, randomized, phase 3 trial evaluated the efficacy and safety of
chemotherapy in patients with node-positive breast cancer.390 This study
adjuvant capecitabine in patients with HER2-negative primary breast
showed that higher-dose EC chemotherapy was equivalent to CMF
cancer who had residual invasive disease after standard (anthracycline
MS-46
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
chemotherapy and superior to moderate-dose EC in event-free survival triple-negative disease, the10-year DFS rate with weekly paclitaxel was
and OS. 69% and the 10-year OS rate was 75%.393
Final results from a randomized trial of TAC versus FAC chemotherapy in The AC regimen for four cycles has been studied in randomized trials,
node-positive breast cancer demonstrated that TAC is superior to FAC.391 resulting in relapse-free survival and OS equivalent to CMF
Estimated 5-year DFS was 75% with TAC and 68% with FAC (HR, 0.72; chemotherapy.394,395 No benefit from dose escalation of either doxorubicin
95% CI, 0.59–0.88; P =.001); survival was 87% with TAC and 81% with or cyclophosphamide was shown.382,396 Studies of CMF chemotherapy
FAC (HR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.53–0.91; P = .008). DFS favored TAC in both versus no chemotherapy have shown DFS and OS advantages with CMF
ER-positive and ER-negative tumors. At a median follow-up of 73 months, chemotherapy.59,397
results from the 3-arm randomized NSABP B-30 trial comparing TAC
Results of a randomized trial in patients with TNBC (n=434) who received
versus AT versus AC followed by docetaxel (AC followed by T)
standard adjuvant chemotherapy demonstrated that maintenance therapy
demonstrated that AC followed by T had a significant advantage in DFS
with low-dose capecitabine (dose of 650 mg/m2 twice a day by mouth for 1
(HR, 0.83; P = .006) but not in OS (HR, 0.86; P = .086) when compared
year) improved 5-year DFS and OS. The invasive DFS in those who
with TAC. In addition, both DFS (HR, 0.080; P = .001) and OS (HR, 0.83;
receive adjuvant low-dose capecitabine was 85.8% compared with 75.8%
P = .034) were significantly increased when AC followed by T was
in those who did not (HR for risk of distant metastasis or death, 0.60 [95%
compared with AT, with AT demonstrating non-inferiority compared with
CI, 0.38-0.92]; P = .02), the estimated 5-year OS with maintenance
TAC.392
capecitabine was 85.5% versus 81.3% (HR for risk of death, 0.75 [95% CI,
Useful in Certain Circumstances: 0.47-1.19]; P = .22).398
Regimens included in this category include dose dense AC; AC every 3 Adjuvant Therapy for HER2-positive tumors
weeks (Category 2B); CMF; AC followed by weekly paclitaxel; and Trastuzumab containing chemotherapy regimens followed by one year of
capecitabine as maintenance therapy for TNBC after adjuvant HER2-targeted therapy are a backbone of adjuvant therapy patients with
chemotherapy. HER2-positive disease.
The phase III E1199 trial compared patients with node-positive or high-risk
The panel recommends HER2-targeted therapy in patients with
node-negative breast cancer who received 4 cycles of AC every 3 weeks,
HER2-positive tumors (see Principles of HER2 Testing in the NCCN
followed by either paclitaxel or docetaxel, either weekly or every 3 weeks.
Guidelines for Breast Cancer). Pre-operative systemic therapy
The 10-year updated results of this trial showed that incorporation of
incorporating HER-2 targeted agent(s) should be considered for HER-2
weekly paclitaxel and docetaxel every 3 weeks was associated with
positive patients presenting with clinical node-positive tumors or those
significant improvements in DFS, and marginal improvements in OS,
measuring >2 cm (cT2) at presentation.)
compared with paclitaxel given every 3 weeks. Among patients with
MS-47
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
The NCCN Panel suggests trastuzumab and chemotherapy be used for heart failure reported was 0.5%).404 The long-term follow-up data reported
patients with HER2-positive, node-negative tumors measuring 0.6 to 1.0 10-year invasive DFS of 91.3%, breast cancer-specific survival of 98.8%
cm (T1b) and for smaller tumors that have less than or equal to 2 mm and OS rates of 94.3%.405 Accordingly, NCCN panel has listed paclitaxel
axillary node metastases (pN1mi). Some support for this recommendation and trastuzumab as a less intensive therapeutic option, preferred for
comes from studies showing a higher risk of recurrence for patients with patients with low-risk T1,N0,M0, HER2-positive disease, particularly those
HER2-positive, node-negative tumors less than or equal to 1 cm not eligible for other standard adjuvant regimens due to comorbidities.405
compared to those with HER2-negative tumors of the same size.399
The BCIRG 006 study randomized 3222 patients with HER2-positive,
node-positive, or high-risk node-negative breast cancer to AC followed by
Ten-year breast cancer-specific survival and 10-year recurrence-free
docetaxel; AC followed by docetaxel plus trastuzumab for one year; or
survival were 85% and 75%, respectively, in patients with tumors
carboplatin, docetaxel, and trastuzumab for one year.403 At 65-month
characterized as HER2-positive, ER-positive tumors, and 70% and 61%,
follow-up, patients receiving AC followed by docetaxel with trastuzumab
respectively, in patients with HER2-positive, ER-negative tumors. Two
(AC-TH) had an HR for DFS of 0.64 (P < .001) when compared with the
additional retrospective series report recurrence-free survival in this
group of patients in the control arm receiving the same chemotherapy
subpopulation of HER-2 positive, node-negative tumors measuring 0.6 to
regimen without trastuzumab (AC-T). The HR for DFS was 0.75 (P = .04)
1.0 cm (T1b) and/or pN1mi. all treated without trastuzumab. In the first
when patients in the carboplatin/docetaxel/ trastuzumab (TCH)-containing
study, 5-year recurrence-free survival rates of 77.1% and 93.7% (P <
arm were compared to patients in the control arm. No statistically
.001) were observed for patients with HER2-positive and HER2-negative
significant difference in the HR for DFS was observed between the two
T1a-bN0M0 breast tumors, respectively, with no recurrence-free survival
trastuzumab-containing arms. An OS advantage was reported for patients
differences seen in the HER2-positive group when hormonal receptor
status was considered.400 In the other retrospective study of patients with in both trastuzumab-containing arms relative to the control arm (HR for
AC-TH vs. AC-T = 0.63; P = .001; HR for TCH vs. AC-T = 0.77; P = .04).
small HER2-positive tumors, the risk of recurrence at 5 years was low
Cardiac toxicity was significantly lower in the TCH arm (9.4% patients with
(99% [95% CI; 96%–100%] for HER2-negative disease and 92% [95% CI;
86%–99%] for HER2-positive disease).401 Subgroup analyses from several >10% relative decline in left ventricular ejection fraction) compared with
the AC-TH arm (18.6%; P < .0001). CHF was also more frequent with
of the randomized trials have shown consistent benefit of trastuzumab
irrespective of tumor size or nodal status.402,403 AC-TH than TCH (2% vs. 0.4%; P < .001). Analysis of this trial by critical
clinical event revealed more distant breast cancer recurrences with TCH
(144 vs. 124) but fewer cardiac events with TCH compared with AC-TH (4
Preferred Regimens:
vs. 21).403 In the FinHer trial, 1010 patients were randomized to 9 weeks of
The NCCN Panel has included paclitaxel and trastuzumab as an option for
vinorelbine followed by 3 cycles of FEC chemotherapy versus docetaxel
patients with low-risk, HER2-positive, stage 1 tumors, based on a trial of
for 3 cycles followed by 3 cycles of FEC chemotherapy.406 Patients (n =
406 patients with small, node-negative, HER2-positive tumors treated with
232) with HER2-positive cancers that were either node-positive or
this combination. The 3-year rate of DFS was 98.7% (95% CI, 97.6–99.8)
node-negative and greater than or equal to 2 cm and PR-negative were
and the risk of serious toxic effects with this regimen was low (incidence of
MS-48
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
further randomized to receive or not receive trastuzumab for 9 weeks The data from the phase III KATHERINE trial reported improved outcomes
during the vinorelbine or docetaxel portions of the chemotherapy only. in patients who had residual invasive cancer and received adjuvant
With a median follow-up of 3 years, the addition of trastuzumab was trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1). Invasive DFS at 3 years was 88.3% with
associated with a reduction in risk of recurrence (HR, 0.42; 95% CI, 0.21– T-DM1 versus 77.0% with trastuzumab.410 T-DM1 significantly decreased
0.83; P = .01). No statistically significant differences in OS (HR, 0.41; 95% the invasive breast cancer recurrence risk or death (HR 0.50, 95% CI
CI, 0.16–1.08; P = .07) or cardiac toxicity were observed with the addition 0.39-0.64, P < .001).410
of trastuzumab.406 At 5-year follow-up, a comparison of the two arms (ie,
The ATEMPT trial was designed to determine whether T-DM1 was more
chemotherapy with and without trastuzumab) demonstrated that the HRs
toxic than paclitaxel/Trastuzumab. The long-term followup data of patients
for distant DFS (HR, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.38–1.12; P = .12) and OS (HR, 0.55;
who received 1 year of adjuvant T-DM1 (n = 383) or
95% CI, 0.27–1.11; P = .094) were higher relative to those reported at 3
years.407 The TCH regimen is a preferred regimen, especially for those trastuzumab/paclitaxel (n = 114) reported the 5-year invasive disease free
survival rate with T-DM1 of 97.0% (95% CI, 95.2%-98.7%), the 5-year
with risk factors for cardiac toxicity, based on the results of the BCIRG 006
recurrence-free interval of 98.3% (95% CI, 96.3%-99.0%), and the 5-year
study.
OS rate of 97.8% (95% CI, 96.3%-99.3%).411 The study was not powered
The APHINITY trial compared adjuvant trastuzumab plus pertuzumab with to evaluate the efficacy of paclitaxel/trastuzumab, among those who
trastuzumab–placebo, both in combination with standard adjuvant received it, the reported 5-year invasive disease-free survival with this
chemotherapy in patients with node-positive or high-risk node-negative combination was 91.3% (95% CI: 86.0-96.9%), 5-year recurrence free
HER2-positive, operable tumors. The study demonstrated that interval was 93.3% (95% CI: 88.6-98.2%) and 5-year OS was 97.9% (95%
trastuzumab plus pertuzumab significantly improved 3-year iDFS (HR CI: 95.2-100%).411 Based on these data, T-DM1 may be considered an
0.81, 95% CI 0.66-1.00, P =.045).408 With long-term (8-year) follow-up, the alternative for these patients ineligible for paclitaxel/Trastuzumab.
node positive subgroup maintained a clear invasive DFS benefit favoring
Other recommended regimens:
the dual HER-2 agent arm demonstrating 8-year invasive DFS of 86%
Anthracycline followed by taxane-containing chemotherapy regimens were
versus 81% (HR; 0.72, 95% CI 0.60-0.87) with no OS difference; no
used in the NSABP trial B-31,412 NCCTG trial,413 and BCIRG 006 trial.403
benefit was seen in the node-negative subgroup.409 These updated results
from the adjuvant APHINITY trial confirm the long-term benefit of adding
In the NOAH trial, patients were given concurrent taxane and
pertuzumab to trastuzumab plus chemotherapy for node positive disease.
anthracycline, then taxane alone followed by cyclophosphamide–
The panel has designated use of trastuzumab with chemotherapy as a
methotrexate–fluorouracil.414 In the FinHER patients were randomized to
category 1 recommendation for all HER2-positive tumors >1 cm, and
docetaxel or vinorelbine before anthracyclines,406 and PACS 04
based on the data above, chemotherapy plus trastuzumab and
randomized patients to fluorouracil/epirubicin/cyclophosphamide or to
pertuzumab as a category 1, preferred regimen for all HER-2 positive,
epirubicin plus docetaxel.415 The HERA trial did not mandate the choice of
node-positive disease.
chemotherapy, 94% receiving anthracyclines and 26% receiving a taxane
in addition to an anthracycline.
MS-49
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
All of the above adjuvant trials of trastuzumab have demonstrated trastuzumab + pertuzumab and paclitaxel/carboplatin + trastuzumab +
clinically significant improvements in DFS. Furthermore, the HERA trial416 pertuzumab.
and the combined analysis of the NSABP B31 and NCCTG N9831 trials417
Regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances:
showed significant improvement in OS with the use of trastuzumab. A
One year of extended therapy with neratinib after completion of 1 year of
more recent meta-analysis of all the above (excluding the BCIRG 006
adjuvant trastuzumab without pertuzumab was evaluated in the phase III
Trial) showed that addition of trastuzumab resulted in an average absolute
ExteNET trial. Neratinib improved invasive DFS (HR 0.73, 95% CI 0.57-
reduction in 10-year risk of recurrence of 9.0% (95% CI 7.4 to 10.7; P < .
0.92, P = .0083) primarily in the subgroup of HR-positive tumors (HR 0.60,
0001), a reduction in 10-year breast cancer mortality by 6.4% (4.9 to 7.8;
95% CI 0.43-0.83, P = .063). Neratinib is associated with moderate to
P < .0001), and a reduction in mortality (all causes) by 6.5% (5.0 to 8.0; P
<.0001).418 The benefits of trastuzumab are independent of ER severe diarrhea.
status.412,419
Based on the trials listed in the section for “other recommended regimen
and the above data from ExteNET, the NCCN panel has included following
The NCCN Panel considers it reasonable to incorporate pertuzumab into
the above adjuvant regimens272,420,421 regimens have been included as useful in certain circumstances:
Docetaxel + cyclophosphamide + trastuzumab; AC followed by paclitaxel
The results of theTRAIN-2 trial showed high pCR rates after treatment + trastuzumab followed by paclitaxel plus trastuzumab, various
regimen with anthracycline plus trastuzumab and pertuzumab (67%) and schedules); AC followed by paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab,
also without anthracycline plus trastuzumab and pertuzumab (68%).420 various schedules); Paclitaxel + trastuzumab + pertuzumab; adjuvant
Patients who received anthracycline-containing regimen experienced more neratinib and adjuvant T-DM1.
febrile neutropenia, hypokalemia, and left ventricular ejection fraction
(LVEF) decline to grade 2 or worse (≥10% or to <50%).420 Therapeutic duration and Other Considerations in those receiving HER2-
targeted therapy
A follow-up analysis of the TRAIN-2 study showed similar 3-year EFS and
The length of trastuzumab administration in the adjuvant setting trials
OS with or without anthracyclines in patients with stage II and III HER2-
listed above is 12 months. The HERA trial demonstrated no additional
positive breast cancer. Based on these results, considering the added
benefit extending trastuzumab to 2 years compared with 1 year.
toxicity of anthracycline containing regimens the panel has added non-
anthracycline containing regimens with trastuzumab and pertuzumab as
With respect to a duration less than 12 months, the results of the
treatment options.422
PERSEPHONE trial showed non-inferiority for 6 months versus 12 months
of trastuzumab treatment,423 However, the PHARE study observed more
The NCCN panel has included the following regimen as other
events in the 6 month cohort compared to the 12 month cohort, and non-
recommended regimens for HER2-positive disease:
inferiority was not established.424 Furthermore, adverse events over time
doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (AC) followed by docetaxel + trastuzumab
(followed by docetaxel + trastuzumab); AC followed by docetaxel +
MS-50
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
remained similar in both arms, and comparable to data reported in other status. If used, the treatment options for endocrine therapy,
trials. chemotherapy, and sequencing of treatment with other modalities are
similar to those of the usual histology of breast cancers. There are rare
Considering the conflicting results between PERSEPHONE and PHARE,
subtypes of metaplastic carcinoma (eg, low-grade adenosquamous and
in addition to the protocol design of the majority of the randomized trials
low-grade fibromatosis-like carcinoma) that have a favorable prognosis
establishing the benefits of trastuzumab which utilized 12 months of
even without administration of adjuvant systemic therapies.
therapy, the NCCN panel recommends up to one year of HER2-targeted
therapy with trastuzumab. Based on the updated APHINITY trial data, the The vast majority of pure tubular, pure mucinous, and pure cribriform
addition of pertuzumab may be considered with trastuzumab in those with breast cancers are both ER-positive and HER2-negative. To be
node-positive disease. associated with favorable prognosis, the favorable histologic type should
not be high grade, should be pure (>90% as classified on the surgical
Increased cardiac toxicity has been observed in patients treated with
excision, not core biopsy alone), and should be HER-2 negative. If atypical
trastuzumab.412,425,426 In addition, anthracycline and taxane-based
pathologic or clinical features are present, consider treating as ductal/NST.
regimens in combination with HER2-targeted agents are associated with
further increased risk of cardiac toxicity.427 The panel recommends The pathology evaluation and accuracy of the ER and/or HER2
evaluation of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) prior to and during determination should be reviewed if these are ER-negative and/or
treatment. The optimal frequency of LVEF assessment during adjuvant HER2-positive, or if a tumor with an ER- and PR-negative status is grade
trastuzumab therapy is not known. The FDA label recommends LVEF 1.276 Should a breast cancer be histologically identified as a pure tubular or
measurements prior to initiation of trastuzumab and every 3 months during mucinous breast cancer and be confirmed as ER-negative, then the tumor
therapy. should be treated according to the guideline for the usual histology,
ER-negative breast cancers. The panel acknowledges that prospective
According to the panel, use of a FDA-approved biosimilar is an
data regarding systemic adjuvant therapy of pure tubular and mucinous
appropriate substitute for trastuzumab. Trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-
histologies are lack
oysk injection approved for subcutaneous use may be substituted for
intravenous trastuzumab. It is important to note that it has a different
dosage and administration compared to intravenous trastuzumab.
Adjuvant Therapy for Tumors of Favorable Histologies
The guidelines provide systemic treatment recommendations for the
favorable histology of invasive breast cancers (including pure tubular and
pure mucinous cancers, pure cribriform, adenoid cystic secretory
carcinoma and other salivary carcinoma, rare low-grade forms of
metaplastic carcinoma) based on ER/PR status, tumor size and ALN
MS-51
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Post-Therapy Surveillance and Follow-up for T0–3, N1, developing a second primary breast cancer. Rates of contralateral breast
M0 and T1–3, N0–1, M0 Tumors cancer after either breast-conserving therapy or mastectomy have been
Post-therapy follow-up is optimally performed by members of the reported to be increased in patients with BRCA1/2 mutations when
treatment team and includes the performance of regular history/physical compared with patients with sporadic breast cancer.433-435
examinations every 4 to 6 months for the first 5 years after primary therapy
The Panel recommends that patients with intact uteri who are taking
and annually thereafter. Mammography should be performed annually.
adjuvant tamoxifen should have yearly gynecologic assessments and
Regarding frequency of mammograms after BCS followed by radiation, the rapid evaluation of any vaginal spotting that might occur because of the
NCCN Panel agrees with ASTRO’s “Choosing Wisely” list of risk of tamoxifen-associated endometrial carcinoma in postmenopausal
recommendations released in 2014.428 The recommendations state that patients.436 The performance of routine endometrial biopsy or
“annual mammograms are the appropriate frequency for surveillance of ultrasonography in the asymptomatic woman is not recommended. Neither
breast cancer patients who have had BCS and RT with no clear test has demonstrated utility as a screening test in any population of
advantage to shorter interval imaging. Patients should wait 6 to 12 months patients. The vast majority of patients with tamoxifen-associated uterine
after the completion of RT to begin their annual mammogram surveillance. carcinoma have early vaginal spotting.
Suspicious findings on physical examination or surveillance imaging might
If an adjuvant AI is considered in patients with amenorrhea following
warrant a shorter interval between mammograms.”
treatment, baseline levels of estradiol and gonadotropin followed by serial
The NCCN Panel notes that any imaging of reconstructed breast is not monitoring of these hormones should be performed if endocrine therapy
indicated. with an AI is initiated.330 Bilateral oophorectomy assures postmenopausal
status in young patients with therapy-induced amenorrhea and may be
According to the NCCN Panel, in the absence of clinical signs and considered prior to initiating therapy with an AI in a young woman.
symptoms suggestive of recurrent disease, laboratory or imaging studies
to screen for metastasis are not necessary. The routine performance of Symptom management for patients on adjuvant endocrine therapies often
alkaline phosphatase tests and LFTs are not included in the guidelines.429- requires treatment of hot flashes and the treatment of concurrent
431 In addition, the Panel notes no evidence to support the use of “tumor depression. Venlafaxine, a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor
markers” for breast cancer, and routine bone scans, CT scans, MRI scans, (SNRI), has been studied and is an effective intervention in decreasing hot
PET scans, or ultrasound examinations in the asymptomatic patient flashes.332-335 There is evidence suggesting that concomitant use of
provide no advantage in survival or ability to palliate recurrent disease and tamoxifen with certain selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) (eg,
are, therefore, not recommended.110,432 paroxetine, fluoxetine) may decrease plasma levels of endoxifen, an active
metabolite of tamoxifen.336,337 These SSRIs/SNRIs may interfere with the
The use of breast MRI in follow-up of patients with prior breast cancer is enzymatic conversion of tamoxifen to endoxifen by inhibiting a particular
undefined. It may be considered as an option in patients with high lifetime isoform of CYP2D6. However, the mild CYP2D6 inhibitors such as
risk (>20% based on models largely dependent on family history) of
MS-52
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
citalopram, escitalopram, sertraline, and venlafaxine appear to have no or The Panel recommends that patients on an adjuvant AI or who experience
only minimal effect on tamoxifen metabolism.330,338,339 ovarian failure secondary to treatment should have monitoring of bone
health with a bone mineral density determination at baseline and
Follow-up also includes assessment of patient adherence to ongoing
periodically thereafter. The use of estrogen, progesterone, or selective ER
medication regimens such as endocrine therapies. Predictors of poor
modulators to treat osteoporosis or osteopenia in patients with breast
adherence to medication include the presence of side effects associated
cancer is discouraged. The use of a bisphosphonate is generally the
with the medication, and incomplete understanding by the patient of the
preferred intervention to improve bone mineral density. A single phase 3
benefits associated with regular administration of the medication.437 The
study, ABCSG12, demonstrated improved outcomes with the addition of
Panel recommends the implementation of simple strategies to enhance
zoledronic acid in premenopausal patients receiving endocrine therapy
patient adherence to endocrine therapy, such as direct questioning of the
with ovarian suppression.442 Use of bisphosphonates in such patients and
patient during office visits, as well as brief, clear explanations on the value
in other subgroups remains controversial. Denosumab has shown to
of taking the medication regularly and the therapeutic importance of longer
significantly reduce fractures in postmenopausal patients receiving
durations of endocrine therapy. adjuvant therapy AIs, and improves bone mineral density.378
Lymphedema is a common complication after treatment for breast
Optimal duration of bisphosphonate therapy has not been established.
cancer. Factors associated with increased risk of lymphedema include
Factors to consider for duration of anti-osteoporosis therapy include bone
extent of axillary surgery, axillary radiation, infection, and patient
mineral density, response to therapy, and risk factors for continued bone
obesity.438,439 The Panel recommends educating the patients on
loss or fracture. Patients treated with a bisphosphonate should undergo a
lymphedema, monitoring for lymphedema, and referring for lymphedema
dental examination with preventive dentistry prior to the initiation of
management as needed.
therapy, and should take supplemental calcium and vitamin D.
Many young patients treated for breast cancer maintain or regain
Evidence suggests that a healthy lifestyle may lead to better breast cancer
premenopausal status following treatment for breast cancer. For these
outcomes. A nested case control study of 369 patients with ER-positive
patients, the NCCN Panel discourages the use of hormonal birth control
methods, regardless of the HR status of the tumor.440 Alternative birth tumors who developed a second primary breast cancer compared with
control methods are recommended, including intrauterine devices, barrier 734 matched control patients who did not develop a second primary tumor
methods, and, for those with no intent of future pregnancy, tubal ligation or showed an association between obesity (body mass index [BMI] ≥30),
vasectomy. Breastfeeding during endocrine or chemotherapy treatment is smoking, and alcohol consumption and contralateral breast cancer.443 A
not recommended by the NCCN Panel because of risks to the infant. prospective study of 1490 patients diagnosed with stage I–III breast
Breastfeeding after breast-conserving treatment for breast cancer is not cancer showed an association between high fruit and vegetable
contraindicated. However, lactation from an irradiated breast may not be consumption, physical activity, and improved survivorship, regardless of
possible, or may occur only with a diminished capacity.440,441 obesity.444 There is emerging evidence that obesity is associated with
poorer outcomes for certain subtypes of breast cancers. The study by the
MS-53
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Women’s Intervention Nutrition group randomized patients with
early-stage breast cancer to an intervention group and a control group.
The intervention consisted of eight one-on-one visits with a registered
dietitian who had been trained on a low-fat eating plan. OS analysis
showed no significant difference between the two study arms (17% for the
intervention vs. 13.6% without); however, subgroup analysis showed that
those with ER- and PR-negative disease who were part of the intervention
group saw a 54% improvement in OS.445
The NCCN Panel recommends an active lifestyle and ideal body weight
(BMI 20–25) for optimal overall health and breast cancer outcomes as
there are reports of proven benefits of exercise and active lifestyle during
and after treatment.446-448
For management of issues related to survivorship including late/long-term
effects of cancer and its treatment, see the NCCN Guidelines for
Survivorship.
MS-54
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Recurrent/Stage IV Breast Cancer the biopsy can be protected from harsh decalcification solution to preserve
more accurate biomarker assessment.
Staging and Workup for Recurrent and Stage IV Breast Cancer
The staging evaluation of patients who present with recurrent or stage IV
Determination of HR status (ER and PR) and HER2 status should be
breast cancer includes: history and physical examination; the performance
repeated in all cases when diagnostic tissue is obtained. ER and PR
of a CBC, LFTs, chest diagnostic CT, bone scan, and radiographs of any
assays may be falsely negative or falsely positive, and there may be
long or weight-bearing bones that are painful or appear abnormal on bone discordance between the primary and metastatic tumors.451,452 The
scan; diagnostic CT of the abdomen (with or without diagnostic CT of the
reasons for the discordance may relate to change in biology of disease,
pelvis) or MRI scan of the abdomen; and biopsy documentation of first
differential effect of prior treatment on clonal subsets, tumor heterogeneity,
recurrence if possible. The NCCN Panel generally discourages the use of or imperfect accuracy and reproducibility of assays.452 Discordance
sodium fluoride PET or PET/CT scans for the evaluation of patients with
between the receptor status of primary and recurrent disease has been
recurrent disease. There is limited evidence (mostly from retrospective
reported in a number of studies. The discordance rates are in the range of
studies) to support the use of PET/CT scanning to guide treatment
3.4% to 60% for ER-negative to ER-positive; 7.2% to 31% for ER-positive
planning through determination of the extent of disease in select patients to ER-negative; and 0.7% to 11% for HER2.453-462
with recurrent or metastatic disease.110,111,449,450 In general, the
non-diagnostic CT scans used for PET under-evaluate the lungs and the The NCCN Panel recommends that re-testing the receptor status of
liver compared with contrast-enhanced diagnostic CT scans. The Panel recurrent disease be performed, especially in cases when it was
considers biopsy of equivocal or suspicious sites to be more likely than previously unknown, originally negative, or not overexpressed. For
PET/CT scanning to provide accurate staging information in this patient patients with clinical courses consistent with HR–positive breast cancer, or
population. with prior positive HR results, the Panel has noted that a course of
endocrine therapy is reasonable, regardless of whether the receptor assay
The consensus of the NCCN Panel is that FDG-PET/CT is optional and
is repeated or the result of the most recent HR assay.
most helpful in situations where standard imaging results are equivocal or
suspicious. The NCCN Panel recommends bone scan or sodium fluoride Genetic counseling is recommended if the patient is considered to be at
PET/CT (category 2B) to detect bone metastases. However, if the FDG- high risk for hereditary breast cancer, as defined by the NCCN Guidelines
PET results clearly indicate bone metastases, these scans can be omitted. for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, and
Pancreatic.
The NCCN Panel recommends that metastatic disease at presentation or
first recurrence of disease should be biopsied as a part of the workup for Genetic testing: In the metastatic setting, results from genetic testing may
patients with recurrent or stage IV disease. This ensures accurate have therapeutic implications. Germline mutations in BRCA1/2 have
determination of metastatic/recurrent disease and tumor histology, and proven clinical utility and therapeutic impact. Therefore, germline BRCA1/2
allows for biomarker determination and selection of appropriate treatment. mutations should be assessed in all patients with recurrent or metastatic
Soft tissue tumor biopsy is preferred over bone sites unless a portion of breast cancer to identify candidates for PARP inhibitor therapy.
MS-55
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Management of Locally Recurrent Disease recurrent disease should be treated with RT if no prior radiation has been
given.
Patients with local recurrence only are divided into three groups: 1) those
who had been treated initially by mastectomy alone; 2) those who had
In patients with a local breast recurrence after BCS and RT who had a
been treated initially by mastectomy plus RT; and 3) those who had
prior sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy, a repeat SLNB may be
received breast-conserving therapy plus RT.
considered although the accuracy of repeat SLNB is unproven, and the
prognostic significance of repeat SLNB after mastectomy is unknown and
In one retrospective study of local recurrence patterns in patients with
its use is discouraged.465,466 On the other hand, the prognostic significance
breast cancer who had undergone mastectomy and adjuvant
of repeat SLNB after mastectomy is unknown and its use is discouraged.
chemotherapy without RT, the most common sites of local recurrence
were at the chest wall and the supraclavicular lymph nodes.463 The The consensus recommendation of the Panel for most patients with a local
recurrence following breast-conserving therapy and SLNB is mastectomy
recommendations for treatment of the population of patients experiencing
and a level I/II axillary dissection.
a local recurrence only are supported by analyses of a combined database
of patients from the EORTC 10801 and Danish Breast Cancer
The results of the CALOR trial found that after complete resection in
Cooperative Group 82TM trials. The analyses compared
patients with isolated locoregional recurrence, adjuvant chemotherapy
breast-conserving therapy with mastectomy in patients with stage I and
improves both DFS and OS.467 After a median follow-up of 4.9 years, the
stage II disease. The 133 (approximately 8%) patients experiencing a local
overall DFS was 69% in the chemotherapy group versus 57% in the group
recurrence as an initial event were approximately equally divided between
that did not receive chemotherapy (HR, 0.59; P = .046).467 Five-year OS in
those who had undergone mastectomy and those who had received
all patients in the study was also significantly improved with chemotherapy
breast-conserving therapy as initial treatment for breast cancer. Of those
(88% vs. 76%, P = .024).467 The benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy was
in the former group, 51 (76%) were able to undergo RT with or without
mostly seen in patients with ER-negative disease. Among patients with
surgery as treatment for local disease recurrence. No difference in survival
ER-negative disease, 5-year DFS was 67% versus 35% (HR, 0.32; 95%
emerged between patients receiving treatment after initial treatment with
CI, 0.14–0.73) and in those ER-positive disease, the 5-year DFS was 70%
mastectomy or breast-conserving therapy; approximately 50% of both
versus 69% (HR, 0.94; 95% CI, 0.47–1.89).467 However these patients
groups were alive at 10-year follow-up.464
received endocrine therapy.
According to the NCCN Panel, mastectomy-treated patients should
According to the NCCN Panel, after local treatment, patients with local
undergo surgical resection of the local recurrence (if it can be
recurrences only should be considered for limited duration systemic
accomplished with limited morbidity) and involved-field RT to the chest
chemotherapy or endocrine therapy similar to that outlined in the adjuvant
wall and supraclavicular area (if the chest wall was not previously treated
chemotherapy section. The Panel emphasized the importance of
or if additional RT may be safely administered). The use of surgical
individualizing treatment strategies in patients with a recurrence of disease
resection in this setting implies the use of limited excision of disease with
limited to a local site.
the goal of obtaining clear margins of resection. Unresectable chest wall
MS-56
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Management of Recurrent or Stage IV Disease no difference in the OS between the group that received surgery and the
group that did not (19.2 vs. 20.5 months; HR, 1.04; 95% CI, 0.81–1.34).475
From the time of diagnosis of recurrent/stage IV metastatic disease,
In a separate multicenter prospective registry study patients whose
patients should be offered appropriate supportive care and
disease responded to first-line systemic therapy were randomized to
symptom-related interventions as a routine part of their care. NCCN
management of the primary tumor by surgery or not. 477 Preliminary data
recognizes the importance of clinical trials and encourages participation
showed no difference in OS between the two groups 477
when applicable and available.
However, in another trial by the Turkish Federation (MF07-01), patients (n
Surgery for Recurrent or Stage IV Disease
= 274) with de novo metastatic breast cancer who were randomized to
The primary treatment approach recommended by the NCCN Panel for
local management (mastectomy, or BCS with radiation) followed by
patients with metastatic breast cancer and an intact primary tumor is
systemic therapy versus systemic therapy only observed a benefit with
systemic therapy, with consideration of surgery after initial systemic
surgery.478 While no difference in survival was seen at 36 months, at 40
treatment for those requiring palliation of symptoms or with impending
complications, such as skin ulceration, bleeding, fungation, and pain.468 months, patients treated with local management showed an improvement
in survival with locoregional treatment (46.4% vs. 26.4%; HR, 0.66; 95%
Generally such surgery should be undertaken only if complete local
CI, 0.49–0.88).478 The design of this trial is different from the other, the first
clearance of tumor may be obtained and if other sites of disease are not
difference being the inclusion of two prospective studies described above
immediately life-threatening. Alternatively, RT may be considered instead
in which patients were included only if they had experienced a response to
of surgery. Often such surgery requires collaboration between the breast
systemic therapy. Second, randomization in the Turkish trial was not
surgeon and the reconstructive surgeon to provide optimal cancer control
balanced. Patients who received surgery had lower rates of triple-negative
and wound closure.
disease (7% vs. 17%), visceral metastases (29% vs. 45%), and many had
Retrospective studies suggest a potential survival benefit from complete solitary bone metastases only (33% vs. 20%).478 In an unplanned
excision of the in-breast tumor in select patients with metastatic breast subgroup analysis, patients who appeared to derive the greatest OS
cancer.469-472 Substantial selection biases exist in all of these studies and benefit from local management included those with HR-positive disease
are likely to confound the study results.473,474 (HR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.44–0.89; P = .008); those with HER2-negative
disease (HR, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.45–0.91; P = .01); those <55 years (HR,
Two prospective, randomized studies assessed whether or not surgery on
0.57; 95% CI, 0.38–0.86; P = .007); and those with solitary bone
the primary tumor in the breast is necessary for patients who are
metastases (HR, 0.47; 95% CI, 0.23–0.98; P = .04). 478
diagnosed with metastatic/stage IV breast cancer.475,476 In the first
prospective trial, patients (n = 350) with de novo metastatic breast cancer The Panel recognizes the need for more data from randomized clinical
who achieved a partial or complete response to anthracycline-based trials that will address the risks and benefits of local therapy for patients
chemotherapy were randomly assigned to either surgery of the primary with stage IV disease while eliminating selection biases. Though the
tumor plus adjuvant radiation or no locoregional treatment.475 There was available data do not support broadly considering local therapy with
MS-57
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
surgery and/or RT, this may be reasonable in select patients with disease health or dental procedures during treatment are known risk factors for
responding to initial systemic therapy. In such clinical scenarios, patient ONJ. Thus, a dental examination with preventive dentistry intervention is
engagement in the decision is encouraged. recommended prior to treatment with intravenous bisphosphonate or
denosumab, and dental procedures invasive of gum or bone during
Guideline Stratification for Systemic Therapy for Stage IV/Recurrent
treatment should be avoided if at all possible. Additional risk factors for the
Disease
development of ONJ include administration of chemotherapy or
The systemic treatment of breast cancer recurrence or stage IV disease
corticosteroids and poor oral hygiene with periodontal disease and dental
prolongs survival and enhances QOL but is not curative. Therefore,
abscess.480
treatments associated with minimal toxicity are preferred. Thus, the use of
the minimally toxic endocrine therapies is preferred to the use of cytotoxic
Bisphosphonates
therapy whenever reasonable.479 Guidance for treatment of patients with
There are extensive data from randomized trials in support of the use of
breast cancer and brain metastases is included the NCCN Guidelines for
bisphosphonates for patients with metastatic disease to bone. The
Central Nervous System Cancers.
randomized clinical trial data include the use of zoledronic acid and
pamidronate in the United States and ibandronate and clodronate in
Patients with recurrent or stage IV breast cancer at diagnosis are initially
European countries.481-488 In metastatic bone disease, bisphosphonate
stratified according to whether bone metastases are present. These two
treatment is associated with fewer SREs, fewer pathologic fractures, and
patient subsets (those with and without bony metastases) are then further
less need for RT and surgery to treat bone pain.
stratified by tumor HR and HER2 status.
The use of bisphosphonates in metastatic disease is a palliative care
Therapy for Bone Metastases
measure. No impact on OS has been observed in patients treated with
Complications from bone metastases include pain, decreased
bisphosphonates.
performance status, and decreased QOL, as well as skeletal-related
events (SREs), which are defined as the need for radiation or surgery to
The data indicate that zoledronic acid and pamidronate may be given on a
bone, pathologic fractures, spinal cord compression, and hypercalcemia of
3- to 4-week schedule in conjunction with antineoplastic therapy (ie,
malignancy.
endocrine therapy, chemotherapy, biologic therapy) or every 12 weeks.
Three randomized trials have compared zoledronic acid dosed every 4
The NCCN Panel recommends treatment with a bone-modifying agent
weeks versus every 12 weeks.489-491 Data from these trials show that
such as zoledronic acid, pamidronate, or denosumab (category 1) in
among patients with breast cancer and bone metastases zoledronic acid
addition to chemotherapy or endocrine therapy if bone metastasis is
administered once every 12 weeks versus once every 4 weeks does not
present; expected survival is ≥3 months. Patients should undergo a dental
compromise efficacy and has similar rates of SREs.489,490,492 In the ZOOM
examination with preventive dentistry prior to initiation of this therapy. The
trial,489 the rate of skeletal morbidities was 0.22 (95% CI, 0.14–0.29) in
bisphosphonates and denosumab are associated with a risk of
those receiving zoledronic acid every 4 weeks versus 0.26 (95% CI, 0.15–
development of osteonecrosis of the jaw (ONJ). Poor baseline dental
0.37) in those receiving zoledronic acid every 12 weeks. In the CALGB
MS-58
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
70604 trial,490 the rate of SREs in the 4-week arm was 29.5% versus superiority) and time to first and subsequent SREs (rate ratio, 0.77; 95%
28.6% in the 12-week arm. In OPTIMIZE-2 trial,491 the rate of SREs was CI, 0.66–0.89; P = .001). No difference in time to progression or OS was
22% in the 4-week arm and 23.2% in the 12-week arm.491 The NCCN observed.494 Dosing of denosumab outside of every 3 to 6 weeks has not
Panel recommends an optimal dosing of every 12 weeks. been studied.
Systemic Therapy for Stage IV or Recurrent Metastatic HR-Positive,
The use of bisphosphonates should be accompanied by calcium and
HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
vitamin D supplementation with daily doses of calcium of 1200 to 1500 mg
Patients with stage IV or recurrent disease characterized by HR-positive,
and vitamin D of 400 to 800 IU. Recommended agents for use in the
3 HER2-negative tumors with no visceral crisis are treated with endocrine
United States are pamidronate 90 mg intravenously over 2 hours or
therapy alone or endocrine therapy in combination with targeted agents.
zoledronic acid 4 mg intravenously over 15 minutes. The original studies
Patients whose disease progresses after a year from the end of adjuvant
continued treatment for up to 24 months; however, there are limited
endocrine-based therapy and those who present with de novo stage
long-term safety data indicating treatment can continue beyond that
IV/metastatic breast cancer are eligible for first-line endocrine therapies.
time.484,486,493 The risk of renal toxicity necessitates monitoring of serum
creatinine prior to administration of each dose and dose reduction or Many premenopausal and postmenopausal patients with HR-positive
discontinuation if renal function is reduced. Current clinical trial results breast cancer benefit from sequential use of endocrine therapies at
support the use of bisphosphonates for up to 2 years. Longer durations of disease progression. Therefore, patients with breast cancers whose
bisphosphonate therapy may provide additional benefit, but this has not disease responds to an endocrine-based therapy with either shrinkage of
yet been tested in clinical trials. the tumor or long-term disease stabilization (clinical benefit) should
receive additional endocrine therapy at disease progression. For disease
Denosumab
progression on or within 12 months of completing adjuvant endocrine
Patients with metastatic breast cancer to bone who are candidates for
therapy or for disease progression on first-line endocrine therapy for
bisphosphonate therapy may also be considered for treatment with
metastatic disease, patients are eligible for second-line endocrine therapy
denosumab. This recommendation is based on the results of a single
either as monotherapy or in combination with a targeted agent. The
randomized trial comparing denosumab to zoledronic acid.494 All trial
optimal sequence for endocrine therapy is not well defined. The choice
patients were recommended to supplement with vitamin D and calcium.
would depend on previous tolerance of treatment and patient preference.
Patients on the experimental arm were given 120 mg of denosumab
injected subcutaneously every 4 weeks plus intravenous placebo versus
Many trials in HR-positive patients have not included premenopausal
the control arm where patients were given an intravenous infusion of 4 mg
patients. The NCCN Panel recommends that patients with HR-positive
of zoledronic acid every 4 weeks, and a subcutaneous placebo. In this trial
disease should have adequate ovarian suppression/ablation and then be
with non-inferiority as the primary endpoint, denosumab was shown to
treated in the same way as postmenopausal patients. The NCCN Panel
significantly delay time to first SRE by 18% as compared with zoledronic
has outlined endocrine-based therapies that would be used in the first-line
acid (HR, 0.82; 95% CI, 0.71–0.95; P < .001 for non-inferiority; P = .01 for
versus second- and subsequent-line settings.
MS-59
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Preferred First-Line Therapy for HR-Positive, HER2-Negative Breast cancer. The combination of abemaciclib with the AI improved PFS,
Cancer compared with the AI alone (median not reached vs. 14.7 months,
AI in combination with CDK 4/6 inhibitor: In postmenopausal patients or respectively; HR, 0.54; 95% CI, 0.41–0.72).497 The ORR was higher with
premenopausal patients receiving ovarian ablation or ovarian function the combination compared with AI monotherapy (59% vs. 44 %).497 The
suppression with a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) most frequent grade 3 or higher adverse events for abemaciclib versus
agonist, combinations of AIs with CDK 4/6 inhibitors (palbociclib, ribociclib, placebo included diarrhea (9.5% vs.1.2%), neutropenia (21.1% vs. 1.2%),
or abemaciclib) have demonstrated improved progression-free survival leukopenia (8% vs. 0.6%), and fatigue (2% vs. 0%).497
(PFS) relative to an AI alone.
Most trials studying CDK 4/6 inhibitor with an AI have mainly included
Palbociclib in combination with letrozole was studied in a phase III study postmenopausal patients and only a small subset of premenopausal
that included postmenopausal patients (n = 666) with metastatic, patients on ovarian suppression. However, in the phase III
HR-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer who had not received prior MONALEESA-7 trial, 672 pre- or perimenopausal patients with
treatment for advanced disease.495 An improvement in PFS (24.8 vs. 14.5 HR-positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer were randomly
months; HR, 0.58; 95% CI, 0.46–0.72) and objective response rate (ORR; assigned to first-line treatment with ribociclib or placebo with goserelin
42% vs. 35%) was seen with the combination of palbociclib and letrozole plus either a nonsteroidal AI or tamoxifen.498 An improvement in PFS was
compared with letrozole alone.495 Grade 3 and 4 adverse effects seen with seen with the addition of ribociclib (median PFS, 24 vs. 13 months; HR,
the combination of palbociclib and letrozole included neutropenia (66.5% 0.55; 95% CI, 0.4–0.69).498
vs. 1.4%), leukopenia (24.8% vs. 0%), anemia (5.4% vs. 1.8%) and fatigue
At 3.5 years, an improvement in OS was reported with ribociclib (70% vs.
(1.8% vs. 0.5%).495
46%; HR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.54–0.95).499 Grade 3 and 4 adverse events
Ribociclib in combination with letrozole was also studied as first-line reported in >10% of patients in either group included neutropenia (61% vs.
therapy in a phase III study of postmenopausal patients (n = 668) with 4%) and leukopenia (14% vs. 1%).498
HR-positive, HER2-negative recurrent/stage IV breast cancer. At a median
Based on the above data, the NCCN Panel has included AI in combination
follow-up of 26.4 months, an improvement in PFS (25.3 vs. 16.0 months;
with CDK 4/6 inhibitors as a category 1 first-line option for
HR for progression or death was 0.56; 95% CI, 0.45–0.70) and improved
postmenopausal patients and premenopausal patients with ovarian
ORR of 43% vs. 29% was seen with ribociclib plus letrozole compared
ablation/suppression with HR-positive, HER2-negative recurrent/stage IV
with letrozole alone.496 Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were more common
breast cancer.
with the combination and included neutropenia (62% vs. 1.2%),
leukopenia (21.3% vs. 0.9%), and abnormal LFTs (10.2% vs. 2.4%).496
Single-Agent Fulvestrant: Fulvestrant is an ER antagonist and was
originally approved as a monthly intramuscular injection (250 mg per
The phase III MONARCH trial studied the combination of abemaciclib with
month); higher dose has been proven to be more effective in subsequent
either an AI (letrozole or anastrozole) or AI monotherapy as first-line
randomized trials. In the first-line setting, fulvestrant was found to be as
treatment of patients with advanced HR-positive, HER2-negative breast
MS-60
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
effective as anastrozole in terms of ORR (36.0% vs. 35.5%; OR, 1.02; combination of ribociclib with fulvestrant showed improved PFS versus
95% CI, 0.56–1.87).500 An improved time to progression was seen with fulvestrant alone (21 vs. 13 months; HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.48–0.73).506 The
fulvestrant compared to anastrozole (median time to progression was 23.4 PFS benefits were consistent across patients with and without prior
months for fulvestrant vs. 13.1 months for anastrozole; HR, 0.63; 95% CI, endocrine treatment. In a subsequent analysis, a significant improvement
0.39–1.00; P = .0496).501 This study also used a higher loading dose of in OS was observed.507 At 42 months the estimated OS was 57.8% (95%
500 mg every 2 weeks for 3 doses and then maintenance dose of 500 mg CI, 52.0–63.2) in the ribociclib group and 45.9% (95% CI, 36.9–54.5) in
monthly.500 The median OS was observed to be longer in the fulvestrant the placebo group.507
group than in the anastrozole group (54.1 months vs. 48.4 months; HR,
0.70; P = .041).502 Comparison across multiple trials, including those in the second-line
settings studying combination of fulvestrant with palbociclib or abemaciclib
A separate phase III randomized study in postmenopausal patients with have shown statistically significant improvement in PFS. Based on the
metastatic HR-positive breast cancer compared fulvestrant 500 mg every results of the MONALEESA-3 trial and extrapolation results from the
2 weeks for 3 doses followed by 500 mg monthly versus fulvestrant 250 second-line setting, the NCCN Panel has included fulvestrant in
mg monthly. The PFS was superior with the fulvestrant 500 mg regimen combination with CDK 4/6 inhibitors as a category 1 first-line option for
(HR, 0.80; 95% CI, 0.68–0.94; P = .006),503 indicating an increased postmenopausal patients and premenopausal patients with ovarian
duration of response with the higher dose of fulvestrant. The final analyses ablation/suppression with HR-positive, HER2-negative recurrent/stage IV
demonstrated an increase in median OS (4.1 months) and reduced risk of breast cancer.
death (19%) with a dose of 500 mg compared with 250 mg. Median OS
was 26.4 versus 22.3 months (HR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.69–0.96; P = .02).504 Fulvestrant + Nonsteroidal AI: The combination of two endocrine agents
as first-line treatment in postmenopausal patients with HR-positive,
Results from another phase III trial (FALCON) of first-line treatment with metastatic breast cancer has been reported from studies comparing
fulvestrant compared with anastrozole in endocrine therapy-naïve patients single-agent anastrozole versus anastrozole plus fulvestrant.
with metastatic ER-positive breast cancer, demonstrated improved PFS
In one study (FACT), combination of fulvestrant with anastrozole was not
with fulvestrant (at the higher dose, 500 mg) over anastrozole at a median
superior to single-agent anastrozole (time to progression HR, 0.99; 95%
follow-up of 25.0 months (16.6 vs. 13.8 months; HR for progression or
death, 0.797; 95% CI, 0.637–0.999).505 The QOL outcomes were similar CI, 0.81–1.20; P = .91).508 In a second phase III trial (SoFEA), the effect of
fulvestrant alone or in combination with anastrozole or exemestane was
between the two groups, with the most common adverse effects being
studied in patients with advanced breast cancer with acquired resistance
arthralgia (17% vs. 10%) and hot flashes (11% vs. 10%) for fulvestrant
to a nonsteroidal AI.509 An AI had been given as adjuvant treatment to
and anastrozole, respectively.505
18% of patients for a median of 27.9 months, and to 82% of patients for
Fulvestrant + CDK 4/6 Inhibitor: In the phase III trial, MONALEESA-3, in locally advanced/metastatic disease for a median of 19.3 months. Median
patients (n = 726) with advanced HR-positive breast cancer who had no PFS was 4.8 months, 4.4 months, and 3.4 months for patients treated with
prior endocrine therapy or had disease progression on prior therapy, the fulvestrant alone, anastrozole plus fulvestrant, and fulvestrant plus
MS-61
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
exemestane, respectively. No differences were observed for ORR, clinical patients.515 In postmenopausal patients, AI monotherapy has been shown
benefit rate, and OS. to have superior outcome compared with tamoxifen, although the
differences are modest.516-520 A randomized phase III trial comparing
In the trial by the Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG), S0226, PFS (HR,
tamoxifen with exemestane as first-line endocrine therapy for
0.80; 95% CI, 0.68–0.94; stratified log-rank P = .007) and OS (HR, 0.81;
postmenopausal patients with metastatic breast cancer showed no
95% CI, 0.65–1.00; stratified P = .049) were superior with combination
significant differences in PFS or OS between the two arms.518
anastrozole plus fulvestrant.510 A subgroup analysis in this trial suggested
that patients without prior adjuvant tamoxifen experienced the greatest OS NCCN recommendations for first-line therapy: For postmenopausal
benefit with combination therapy compared with monotherapy (median, patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative recurrent/stage IV breast
52.2 months vs. 40.3 months, respectively; HR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.58– cancer, NCCN category 1, preferred regimens include a cyclin-dependent
0.92).511 kinase CDK 4/6 inhibitor with an AI; fulvestrant with or without a CDK 4/6
inhibitor; and fulvestrant with a nonsteroidal AI. The NCCN category 2A,
The reasons for the divergent outcomes in the above trials is not very
preferred regimen includes nonsteroidal AI (ie, anastrozole, letrozole);
clear. The three trials discussed above had slightly different patient
steroidal AI (exemestane), and selective ER modulator (tamoxifen or
populations—there were more cases of patients with no prior endocrine
toremifene). For premenopausal patients, first-line endocrine treatment
exposure (with de novo stage IV metastatic disease) in the SWOG S0226
includes ovarian suppression/ablation and endocrine therapy listed above
trial compared with the FACT trial. The FACT trial included a more
for postmenopausal patients or alternately with a SERM alone.
heterogeneous population of both premenopausal and postmenopausal
patients with locally advanced and metastatic disease. The SoFEA trial Preferred Regimens for Second and Subsequent Lines of Therapy for
only enrolled patients with acquired endocrine resistance (who had HR-Positive, HER2-Negative Breast Cancer
disease progression while they were receiving an AI). Further studies are Fulvestrant-Containing Regimens
needed to confirm the results of the SWOG S0226 trial.
Fulvestrant + CDK 4/6 Inhibitors: Fulvestrant in combination with a CDK
The NCCN Panel has included an AI and fulvestrant as first-line therapy 4/6 inhibitor may be offered to patients who experienced disease
(category 1) for postmenopausal patients based on the above data. progression during prior treatment with AIs with or without one line of prior
chemotherapy (category 1), because PFS was improved compared with
Monotherapy with Endocrine Agents: In postmenopausal patients there is
fulvestrant alone in a phase III trial (PALOMA-3).521 The NCCN Panel
evidence supporting the use of an AI as first-line therapy for their recurrent
notes that treatment should be limited to those without prior exposure to
disease.512,513
CDK 4/6 inhibitors.
Prospective randomized trials comparing the AI head-to-head have
The PALOMA-3 compared the combination of palbociclib and fulvestrant
demonstrated that all AIs are the same.514 Tamoxifen is the commonly
to fulvestrant in pre- or postmenopausal patients with HR-positive,
used selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) for premenopausal
HER2-negative advanced breast cancer, whose disease progressed on
MS-62
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
prior endocrine therapy. Pre- or perimenopausal patients also received 1.87; P = .947) in evaluable patients (n = 89 for fulvestrant and n = 93 for
goserelin. The median PFS was 9.5 months for the combination compared anastrozole).500 An improved time to progression was seen with fulvestrant
to 4.6 months for fulvestrant (HR, 0.46; P < .000001)522 Grade 3/4 adverse compared to anastrozole (median time to progression was 23.4 months for
events of palbociclib and fulvestrant were mainly confined to neutropenia fulvestrant vs. 13.1 months for anastrozole; HR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.39–1.00;
(in 65% of patients). P = .0496).501 This study used a higher 500 mg loading dose every 2
weeks for 3 doses and then 500 mg monthly.500 The median OS was
In the MONARCH 2 phase III trial, patients who had disease progression
observed to be longer in the fulvestrant group than in the anastrozole
while receiving endocrine therapy were randomly assigned to fulvestrant
group (54.1 months vs. 48.4 months; HR, 0.70; P = .041).502
with or without abemaciclib.523 Those receiving combination therapy
experienced an improved PFS relative to those receiving fulvestrant alone A phase II study of fulvestrant in postmenopausal patients with advanced
(16.4 vs. 9.3 months; HR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.45–0.68). The ORR was higher breast cancer and disease progression following AI therapy documented a
in those receiving abemaciclib and fulvestrant (48% vs. 21%).523 In partial response rate of 14.3% with an additional 20.8% of patients
addition, an improvement was seen in OS with abemaciclib plus achieving stable disease for at least 6 months.527 The clinical benefit rates
fulvestrant compared with fulvestrant alone (46.7 vs. 37.3 months; HR, of exemestane versus fulvestrant observed in a phase III trial of
0.757; 95% CI, 0.606–0.945).524 postmenopausal patients with HR-positive advanced breast cancer who
experienced disease progression on prior nonsteroidal AI therapy were
Based on the above data that shows addition of a CDK 4/6 inhibitor to
comparable (32.2% vs. 31.5%; P = .853).528 In that study, fulvestrant was
fulvestrant in patients previously exposed to prior endocrine therapy
administered as a 500 mg loading dose followed by doses of 250 mg on
provides a significant improvement in median PFS, the NCCN Panel has day 14, day 28, and then monthly.528
included fulvestrant in combination with a CDK 4/6 inhibitor as a category
1 option for postmenopausal patients and premenopausal patients with Fulvestrant Plus Alpelisib: In a randomized phase III trial, patients (n =
ovarian ablation/suppression with HR-positive, HER2- negative, 572) with advanced HR-positive breast cancer and confirmed PIK3CA
recurrent/stage IV breast cancer. The Panel notes that if there is disease status had received a prior AI either for local or advanced disease.
progression while on CDK 4/6 inhibitor therapy, there are limited data to Patients were enrolled into either the PIK3CA mutant (n = 341) cohort or
support an additional line of therapy with another CDK 4/6 the PIK3CA non-mutant cohort and each cohort was randomized to
inhibitor-containing regimen. receive fulvestrant plus the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor,
alpelisib versus fulvestrant plus placebo. Patients with a PIK3CA mutation
Fulvestrant Monotherapy: Fulvestrant monotherapy appears to be at least
receiving alpelisib showed improved PFS compared to fulvestrant alone.
as effective as anastrozole in patients whose disease progressed on
At a median follow-up of 20 months PFS was 11.0 months (95% CI, 7.5–
previous tamoxifen.525,526 A randomized phase II study compared
14.5) in the alpelisib group compared with 5.7 months (95% CI, 3.7–7.4) in
anastrozole versus fulvestrant in over 200 patients with advanced breast
the group that received fulvestrant alone (HR for progression or death,
cancer.500,501 In the initial analysis, fulvestrant was as effective as
0.65; 95% CI, 0.50–0.85; P < .001); in the cohort without PIK3CA-mutated
anastrozole in terms of ORR (36.0% vs. 35.5%; OR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.56–
MS-63
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
tumors, the HR was 0.85 (95% CI, 0.58–1.25). In the overall population, A phase III study (BOLERO-2) randomized postmenopausal patients with
the most frequently reported grade 3 or 4 adverse events seen with HR-positive advanced breast cancer that had disease progression or
alpelisib and fulvestrant versus fulvestrant alone were hyperglycemia recurrence during treatment with a nonsteroidal AI to exemestane with or
(36.6% vs. 0.7%), rash (9.9% vs. 0.3%), and diarrhea (6.7% vs. 0.3%) without the mTOR inhibitor everolimus.533 Final results reported after
(grade 3); no diarrhea or rash of grade 4 were reported.529 median 18-month follow-up show that median PFS (by central review)
remained significantly longer with everolimus plus exemestane versus
Everolimus Plus Endocrine Therapy: Resistance to endocrine therapy in
placebo plus exemestane at 11.0 versus 4.1 months, respectively (HR,
patients with HR-positive disease is frequent. One mechanism of 0.38; 95% CI, 0.31–0.48; P < .0001).532 The adverse events (all grades)
resistance to endocrine therapy is activation of the mammalian target of
that occurred more frequently in those receiving everolimus included
rapamycin (mTOR) signal transduction pathway. stomatitis, infections, rash, pneumonitis, and hyperglycemia.532,533 Analysis
of safety and efficacy in the older patients enrolled in this trial showed that
A randomized phase II study estimated the efficacy of tamoxifen alone
older patients treated with an everolimus-containing regimen had similar
versus tamoxifen combined with everolimus, an oral inhibitor of mTOR, in
incidences of these adverse events, but the younger patients had more
patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer
on-treatment deaths.534 Based on the evidence from the BOLERO-2 trial,
previously treated with an AI.530 After a median follow-up of 13 months, an
the NCCN Panel has included everolimus plus exemestane as an option
intent-to-treat analysis showed that the clinical benefit was 42.1% (95%
for patients who fulfill the entry criteria for BOLERO-2. Tamoxifen or
CI, 29.1–55.9) with tamoxifen alone and 61.1% (95% CI, 46.9–74.1) with
fulvestrant in combination with everolimus have also been included as
tamoxifen plus everolimus. An improvement in median time to progression
options. The NCCN Panel also notes that if there is disease progression
was seen when everolimus was combined with tamoxifen compared with
while on an everolimus-containing regimen, there are no data to support
tamoxifen alone. Median time to progression was 4.5 months (95% CI,
an additional line of therapy with another everolimus regimen.
3.7–8.7) with tamoxifen alone versus 8.5 months (95% CI, 6.01–13.9) with
everolimus and tamoxifen.530
Aromatase Inhibitors: AIs as monotherapy are options as subsequent-line
therapy. The three AIs (anastrozole, letrozole, and exemestane) have
In a phase III trial in postmenopausal patients with advanced, HR-positive
shown similar efficacy in the second-line setting.514,535,536 AI monotherapy
breast cancer with no prior endocrine therapy for advanced disease,
maybe be useful in patients desiring single-agent treatment, if they have
randomized subjects to letrozole with or without the mTOR inhibitor
not received an AI as first-line treatment or if they may not be suitable for
temsirolimus,531 PFS was not different between the treatment arms (HR,
combination therapy. Patients who have received a prior nonsteroidal AI
0.89; 95% CI, 0.75–1.05; log-rank P = .18).
may benefit from a steroidal AI as a subsequent line of therapy or vice
The results of this trial differ from that of the BOLERO-2 trial (described versa.
below). The reasons for the differences in the outcomes of these two
randomized phase III studies531,532 is uncertain, but may be related to the
issues of patient selection and extent of prior endocrine therapy.
MS-64
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Selective ER Modulator: An analysis of two randomized studies of first-line analysis, at 18 months, median OS was 22.3 months (95% CI, 17.7–not
treatment with anastrozole followed by second-line tamoxifen and vice reached).542 Diarrhea was the most frequent adverse event reported in
versa showed that tamoxifen is effective as a second-line option.537 90.2% of patients. Other common adverse events were fatigue (65.2%),
nausea (64.4%), and decreased appetite (45.5%). Grade 3 and 4
NCCN Recommendations for Second-line Therapy: For postmenopausal neutropenia occurred in 26.9% of patients.542 The NCCN Panel has
patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative recurrent/stage IV breast
included single-agent abemaciclib as an option for those with disease
cancer, the preferred options available include fulvestrant with a CDK 4/6
progression on prior endocrine therapy and prior chemotherapy in the
inhibitor (ie, palbociclib, ribociclib, abemaciclib) (category 1), or for those
metastatic setting.
with tumor PIK3CA mutations, fulvestrant with alpelisib; everolimus with
either an AI, tamoxifen, or fulvestrant; monotherapy with fulvestrant; Systemic Therapy for Stage IV or Recurrent HR-Negative, HER2-Positive
Breast Cancer
nonsteroidal or steroidal AI; or SERM. Estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1)
For patients with HER2-positive, HR-negative recurrent/stage IV breast
activating mutations are frequently detected in patients with prior exposure
cancer, the treatment approach is HER2-targeted therapy in combination
to AIs. Tumors with these mutations are generally resistant to both AIs and
with systemic chemotherapy. The NCCN Panel notes that an
tamoxifen. Certain tumors with these mutations retain sensitivity to
FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for trastuzumab.
fulvestrant. All may benefit by adding one of the following to fulvestrant: a
Also, trastuzumab and hyaluronidase-oysk injection for subcutaneous use
CDK 4/6-inhibitor, or an mTOR-inhibitor, or alpelisib, if the tumor has
may be substituted for trastuzumab. This subcutaneous option has
PIK3CA mutation.
different dosage and administration instructions compared to intravenous
Regimens Useful in Certain Circumstances for Therapy for HR-Positive, trastuzumab. Doses and schedules of representative regimens for use in
HER2-Negative Breast Cancer HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer are also included in NCCN
Megestrol acetate,512,538-540 estradiol541 androgens such as Guidelines.
fluoxymesterone, and single-agent abemaciclib have been listed as
Patients with disease progression while being treated with HER2-targeted
options useful in certain circumstances.
therapy should be offered an additional line of treatment with a
The phase II MONARCH 1 trial evaluated the activity of abemaciclib as a HER2-targeted therapy since it is beneficial to continue suppression of the
single agent in patients (n = 132) with refractory HR-positive, HER2 pathway. The choice of the HER2-targeted therapy will depend on
HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer who had disease progression previously administered therapy, relapse-free interval, and patients’
while on endocrine therapy and already received multiple systemic preference and access.
therapies (average of three prior systemic regimens).542 Ninety percent of
The optimal sequence of available HER2-targeted therapies and the
patients had visceral disease and 50.8% had more than three sites of
optimal duration of HER2-targeted therapy for recurrent/stage IV breast
metastases.542 Single-agent abemaciclib induced a partial response in 26
cancer is currently unknown. The NCCN Panel recommends continuing
patients (19.7%) and demonstrated an ORR of 19.7% (95% CI, 13.3–
HER2-targted therapy until progression/unacceptable toxicity.
27.5).542 Median PFS was 6 months (95% CI, 4.2–7.5). At the final
MS-65
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Preferred Regimens for Stage IV/Recurrent HER2-Positive Breast Cancer Phase II trials have also found activity and tolerability for pertuzumab,
A randomized, double-blind, phase III study (CLEOPATRA) compared the pertuzumab with trastuzumab, and for other regimens combining
efficacy and safety of pertuzumab in combination with trastuzumab and pertuzumab and trastuzumab together with other active cytotoxic agents
docetaxel versus trastuzumab and docetaxel as first-line treatment for 808 (ie, paclitaxel, vinorelbine).548,549,550 Phase III trials of pertuzumab plus
patients (n = 808) with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer.543 This chemotherapy without trastuzumab have not been reported.
trial included patients (about 10%) who had previously received
The NCCN Panel recommends pertuzumab plus trastuzumab in
trastuzumab in the adjuvant or neoadjuvant setting. At a median follow-up
combination with a taxane as a preferred option for first-line treatment of
of 19 months, the addition of pertuzumab to docetaxel plus trastuzumab
patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Pertuzumab plus
resulted in improvement in PFS compared with placebo (median, 18.5 vs.
12.4 months; HR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.51–0.75; P < .001).543 At a median trastuzumab in combination with docetaxel is an NCCN category 1 and in
combination with paclitaxel is an NCCN category 2A recommendation.
follow-up of 30 months the results showed a statistically significant
improvement in OS in favor of the pertuzumab-containing regimen, with a
Other Regimens for Stage IV/Recurrent HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
34% reduction in the risk of death (HR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.52–0.84; P =
.0008).544 The most common adverse reactions reported in the Ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1): T-DM1 is an antibody-drug
pertuzumab group compared to the control group were diarrhea (67% vs. conjugate that stably links the HER2-targeting property of trastuzumab to
46%), rash (34% vs. 24%), mucosal inflammation (27% vs. 20%), febrile the cytotoxic activity of the microtubule-inhibitory agent DM1 (derivative of
neutropenia (14% vs. 8%), and dry skin (10% vs. 4%). Peripheral edema maytansine).
and constipation were greater in the control group.543 Cardiac adverse
events or left ventricular systolic dysfunction were reported slightly more In a phase III trial (MARIANNE), 1095 patients with locally advanced or
frequently in the control group.545 HRQOL was not different in the two metastatic breast cancer were randomized to first-line treatment with
treatment groups.546 In the PERUSE study, patients (n = 1436) with T-DM1 with or without pertuzumab or trastuzumab plus a taxane. The
advanced HER2-positive breast cancer and no prior systemic therapy primary endpoints were safety and PFS assessed by independent review.
(except endocrine therapy) received docetaxel, paclitaxel, or The PFS for T-DM1 with pertuzumab was found to be non-inferior to
nab-paclitaxel with trastuzumab and pertuzumab until disease progression trastuzumab and a taxane (15.2 and 13.7 months, respectively; HR, 0.87;
or unacceptable toxicity. The preliminary results after 52 months of median 97.5% CI, 0.69–1.08; P = .14).551 The PFS for T-DM1 alone was
follow-up show that median PFS was comparable between docetaxel, non-inferior to trastuzumab plus a taxane (14.1 and 13.7, respectively; HR,
paclitaxel, and nab-paclitaxel (median PFS reported was 19.6, 23.0, and 0.91; 97.5% CI, 0.73–1.13; P = .31).551 The incidence of grade 3–5
18.1 months with docetaxel, paclitaxel, and nab-paclitaxel, respectively).547 adverse events was 54.1%, 45.4%, and 46.2% in the trastuzumab plus a
Compared with docetaxel-containing therapy, paclitaxel-containing therapy taxane arm, T-DM1 arm, and T-DM1 plus pertuzumab arm, respectively.
was associated with more neuropathy (31% vs. 16%), but less febrile HRQOL was maintained for a longer duration with a median of 7.7 months
neutropenia (1% vs. 11%) and mucositis (14% vs. 25%). for T-DM1 (HR, 0.70; 95% CI, 0.57–0.86) and a median of 9 months for
MS-66
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
T-DM1 plus pertuzumab (HR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.55–0.84) compared with a trastuzumab-containing regimen.559-561 However, the optimal duration of
median of 3.9 months for trastuzumab and a taxane.551 trastuzumab in patients with long-term control of disease is unknown.
Based on the MARIANNE trial data demonstrating T-DM1 and T-DM1 with Pertuzumab is active in patients beyond the first-line setting. The results of
pertuzumab being non-inferior, with better QOL compared with a multicenter, open-label, single-arm, phase II study (n = 66) show that the
trastuzumab plus a taxane and possibly better tolerated for some patients, combination of pertuzumab and trastuzumab is active and well tolerated in
551 the NCCN Panel included T-DM1 as an option for treatment of patients patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer that has progressed
with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer. Pertuzumab, trastuzumab, on prior trastuzumab therapy.562 The trial reported an ORR of 24.2% (16
and a taxane, however, remains the preferred first-line regimen for patients out of 66). The median PFS time observed with pertuzumab and
HER2-positive metastatic disease based on data demonstrating improved trastuzumab combination was 15.5 months (range, 0.9–17.0 months; 80%
OS compared to trastuzumab and a taxane. TDM-1 as first-line therapy CI, 18–31 months).562 The reported median duration of response with the
should be considered only in those not suitable for the preferred treatment. combination was 5.8 months (range, 2.9–15.3 months).562
First-line trastuzumab in combination with selected chemotherapy552 are To determine whether the clinical benefit seen in the study was from
additional options for patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast pertuzumab alone or was a result of the combined effect of pertuzumab
cancer. Randomized trials demonstrate benefit from adding trastuzumab and trastuzumab, a cohort of patients (n = 29) whose disease progressed
to other agents including paclitaxel with or without carboplatin,552-555 during prior trastuzumab-based therapy received pertuzumab
docetaxel,553 and vinorelbine,553 for patients with HER2-positive metastatic monotherapy until progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity. Of these,
disease. In addition, the combination of trastuzumab and capecitabine has patients with disease progression (n = 17) continued to receive
also shown efficacy as a first-line trastuzumab-containing regimen in this pertuzumab with the addition of trastuzumab. In the 29 patients who
setting.556,557 The NCCN Panel believes the 27% frequency of significant received pertuzumab monotherapy, the ORR and clinical benefit rate
cardiac dysfunction in patients treated with the combination of reported were 3.4% and 10.3%, respectively, whereas in the patients who
trastuzumab and doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy in the received dual blockade after disease progression while on pertuzumab,
metastatic setting is too high for use of this combination outside the the ORR and clinical benefit rate were 17.6% and 41.2%, respectively.563
confines of a prospective clinical trial.552,557,558
According to the NCCN Panel, for patients with disease progression after
In those with disease progression on first-line trastuzumab-containing treatment with trastuzumab-based therapy without pertuzumab, a line of
regimens, the NCCN Panel recommends continuation of HER2 blockade. therapy containing both trastuzumab plus pertuzumab with or without a
This recommendation also applies to patients who are diagnosed with cytotoxic agent (such as vinorelbine or taxane) may be
HER2-positive metastatic disease after prior exposure to trastuzumab in considered. Further research is needed to determine the ideal sequencing
the adjuvant setting. Several trials have demonstrated benefit of strategy for HER2-targeted therapy.
continuation of trastuzumab therapy following disease progression on a
MS-67
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
T-DM1 also has also shown activity in the second-line setting. A 1 or 2, 10.9%; grade 3 or 4, 0.5%; and grade 5, 2.2%). Based on this
randomized, international, multicenter, open-label, phase III study study and the approval from the FDA, the NCCN Panel has included this
(EMILIA) evaluated the safety and efficacy of T-DM1 compared with as an option for HER2-positive metastatic disease noting that it is
lapatinib plus capecitabine for HER2-positive patients with locally indicated in patients after two or more lines of prior HER2-targeted therapy
advanced breast cancer or metastatic breast cancer previously treated in the metastatic setting and contraindicated for those with a history of or
with trastuzumab and a taxane.564 The primary endpoints of this study active ILD.
were PFS, OS, and safety. T-DM1 demonstrated a statistically significant
Lapatinib in combination with capecitabine or trastuzumab are options for
improvement in both primary endpoints of PFS and OS. PFS (assessed by
patients with HER2-positive disease following disease progression on a
independent review) was significantly improved with T-DM1 with median
trastuzumab-containing regimen.
PFS of 9.6 months vs. 6.4 months with lapatinib plus capecitabine; HR for
progression or death from any cause was 0.65 (95% CI, 0.55–0.77; P <
A phase III study compared lapatinib plus capecitabine with capecitabine
.001). At the first interim analysis, T-DM1 also demonstrated significant
alone in patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer refractory to
improvement in OS. The stratified HR for death from any cause with
trastuzumab in the metastatic setting and with prior treatment with an
T-DM1 versus lapatinib plus capecitabine was 0.62 (95% CI, 0.48–0.81; P
anthracycline and a taxane in either the metastatic or adjuvant setting.566
= .0005).564 Rates of grade 3 or 4 adverse events were higher with
Time to progression was increased in the group receiving combination
lapatinib plus capecitabine than with T-DM1 (57% vs. 41%). The
therapy when compared with the group receiving capecitabine
incidences of thrombocytopenia and increased serum aminotransferase
monotherapy (8.4 months vs. 4.4 months; HR, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.34–0.71; P
levels were higher with T-DM1 (frequency >25%), whereas the incidences
< .001). The patients who had disease progression on monotherapy were
of diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, and palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia were
allowed to cross over to the combination arm. This resulted in insufficient
higher with lapatinib plus capecitabine.564
power to detect significant differences in OS; an exploratory analysis
demonstrated a trend toward a survival advantage with lapatinib plus
A phase II single-arm study evaluated fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki, a
capecitabine.567 The analysis reported a median OS of 75.0 weeks for the
HER2 antibody conjugated with a topoisomerase I inhibitor, in adults (n =
combination arm and 64.7 weeks for the monotherapy arm (HR, 0.87; 95%
184) with pathologically documented HER2-positive metastatic breast
CI, 0.71–1.08; P = .210).567
cancer who had received multiple previous treatments including treatment
with T-DM1.565 After a median duration of follow-up of 11.1 months (range
Results from a phase III trial in which patients with heavily pretreated
0.7–19.9), the median response duration with fam-trastuzumab
metastatic breast cancer and disease progression on trastuzumab therapy
deruxtecan-nxki was 14.8 months (95% CI, 13.8–16.9), and the median
randomly assigned to trastuzumab plus lapatinib or lapatinib monotherapy
PFS was 16.4 months (95% CI, 12.7–not reached).565 Most commonly
showed that PFS was increased from 8.1 weeks to 12 weeks (P = .008)
reported adverse events (grade 3 or higher) were a decreased neutrophil
with the combination.568 The OS analysis data showed that lapatinib plus
count (20.7%), anemia (8.7%), nausea (7.6%), and fatigue (6%).565
trastuzumab improved median survival by 4.5 months, with median OS of
Interstitial lung disease (ILD) was reported in 13.6% of the patients (grade
14 months for the combination therapy and 9.5 months for lapatinib alone
MS-68
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
(HR, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.57–0.97; P = .026). 569 This improvement in OS months were 90.2% versus 87.5% with neratinib + capecitabine compared
analysis included patients who were initially assigned to monotherapy and with 72.5% versus 66.7% for lapatinib in combination with capecitabine
crossed over to receive combination therapy at the time of progression.569 (HR, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.72–1.07; P = .2086). Diarrhea was the most
Based on the absence of data, the Panel does not recommend the frequently reported side effect in the NALA trial in both arms, but a higher
addition of chemotherapy to the trastuzumab and lapatinib combination. rate was observed in patients in the neratinib group (any grade diarrhea,
83% vs. 66%; grade 3/4 diarrhea, 24% vs. 13%).
In a phase II trial of patients (n = 49) with progressive, HER2-positive
disease and brain metastases (92% received CNS surgery and/or Based on the results of the NALA trial and the recent FDA approval,
radiotherapy),570 patients were treated with capecitabine plus neratinib, NCCN has included neratinib plus capecitabine as a category 2A option in
a second-generation (irreversible) pan-HER tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) this setting.
of the tyrosine kinase domains of EGFR, HER2, and HER4. The patients
Systemic Therapy for Recurrent or Stage IV HR-Positive, HER2-Positive
were separated based on prior lapatinib treatment. The combination
Breast Cancer
therapy resulted in a CNS ORR of 49% (95% CI, 32%–66%), among
Patients with stage IV or recurrent disease characterized by tumors that
lapatinib-naïve patients, and 33% (95% CI, 10%–65%) among those with
are HR-positive, HER2-positive tumors have the option of receiving
prior lapatinib treatment.570 Median PFS and OS among lapatinib-naïve
HER2-directed therapy as a component of their treatment plan. Options
patients was 5.5 and 13.3 months, and 3.1 and 15.1 months among those
include treatment with a HER2-targeted therapy plus chemotherapy or
with prior lapatinib treatment. Grade 3 diarrhea occurred in 29% of
endocrine therapy alone or in combination with HER2-targeted therapy.
patients.570
Endocrine therapy alone or in combination with HER2-targeted therapy is
a less toxic approach compared with HER2-targeted therapy combined
A prospective randomized phase III trial (NALA) randomized patients (n =
with chemotherapy. Premenopausal patients treated with HER2-targeted
621) with HER2-positive breast cancer to neratinib in combination with
therapy and endocrine therapy should receive ovarian suppression or
capecitabine or lapatinib plus capecitabine until disease progression.571 All
ablation.
enrolled patients received a least two lines of prior HER2-targeted
treatment in the metastatic setting. Approximately 30% had received ≥3
Adding trastuzumab or lapatinib to an AI has demonstrated a PFS
prior treatment lines. About a third of all patients had received prior
advantage compared with AI alone in postmenopausal patients with stage
treatment with trastuzumab, pertuzumab, and T-DM1.
IV or recurrent HR-positive, HER2-positive tumors.
The ORR (32.8% vs. 26.7%; P = .1201), clinical benefit rate (44.5% vs.
In the TAnDEM study, postmenopausal patients (n = 207) with metastatic
35.6%; P = .0328), and median duration of response (8.5 vs. 5.6 months)
HR-positive and HER2-positive tumors were randomized to receive
all favored the neratinib arm. Fewer patients required intervention for CNS
anastrozole alone or anastrozole plus trastuzumab.572 Compared with
metastases with neratinib. The risk of progression was reduced by 24% in
single-agent anastrozole, an improvement in PFS was seen with
the neratinib group (HR, 0.76; 95% CI, 0.63–0.93; P = .0059). There was a
combination therapy (4.8 vs. 2.4 months; HR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.47–0.84; P
non-significant trend towards improved survival. The OS rates at 6 and 12
MS-69
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
= .0016). The combination was associated with a higher incidence of was stopped, endocrine therapy may be added to the trastuzumab plus
toxicities (all grades), fatigue (21% vs. 9%), diarrhea (20% vs. 8%), pertuzumab.
vomiting (21% vs. 4%), and pyrexia (18% vs. 7%); serious (grade 3/4)
In the ALTERNATIVE trial, postmenopausal patients (n = 355) with
toxicities were rare in both treatment arms.
HER2-positive, HR-positive metastatic breast cancer were randomized to
The phase III eLEcTRA trial studied the efficacy and safety of trastuzumab receive lapatinib plus trastuzumab plus an AI, lapatinib plus an AI, or
plus letrozole in patients (n = 93) with HER2-positive and HR-positive trastuzumab plus an AI without chemotherapy.576 All patients in the trial
metastatic breast cancer. Median time to progression was 3.3 months with received prior trastuzumab and prior endocrine therapy, either in the
letrozole and 14.1 months with trastuzumab plus letrozole. The results are adjuvant or metastatic disease setting. An AI in combination with lapatinib
consistent with the TAnDEM trial; however, due to smaller numbers of plus trastuzumab demonstrated a significant increase in PFS compared
patients enrolled in this trial, this was not statistically significant (HR, 0.67; with trastuzumab without lapatinib (11 vs. 5.7 months; HR, 0.62; 95% CI,
95% CI, 0.35–1.29; P = .23).573 0.45–0.88, P = .0064).576 The most common adverse events with the
combination compared with trastuzumab or lapatinib monotherapy were
In a phase III study of postmenopausal patients (n = 219) with HER2-
diarrhea (69%, 9%, 51%), rash (36%, 2%, 28%), nausea (22%, 9%, 22%),
positive and HR-positive disease, first-line treatment with lapatinib plus
and paronychia (30%, 0%, 15%).
letrozole reduced the risk of disease progression compared to treatment
with letrozole alone (median PFS, 8.2 months vs. 3.0 months; HR, 0.71; The NCCN Panel has also included other combinations of available
95% CI, 0.53–0.96; P = .019).574 The combination of letrozole plus endocrine therapies such as fulvestrant or tamoxifen with trastuzumab as
trastuzumab was associated with a higher rate of grade 3 or grade 4 options for HR-positive and HER2-positive metastatic disease. These
toxicities, including diarrhea (10% vs. 1%) and rash (1% vs. 0%).574 options would be mostly considered after completion of chemotherapy
plus HER2-therapy or in a few patients with indolent or asymptomatic
In the randomized phase II study (PERTAIN), postmenopausal patients (n
disease based on the need for continuing HER2-targeted therapy for
= 258) were randomly assigned to either first-line pertuzumab plus
disease control. The selection of appropriate endocrine therapy would
trastuzumab and an AI (anastrozole or letrozole) or trastuzumab plus an
depend on agents the patient has already received.
AI. There was an improvement in PFS with the three-drug combination
(18.9 vs. 15.8 months; HR, 0.65; 95% CI, 0.48–0.89).575 Grade 3 or higher Systemic Therapy for Recurrent or Stage IV Disease with Germline
adverse events observed were higher trastuzumab and pertuzumab BRCA1/2 Mutations
About 5% of all patients with breast cancer carry the germline breast
versus pertuzumab alone (50% vs. 39%). Of note, about half of patients
cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) mutations, and rates of these mutations
received induction therapy with a taxane for 18 to 24 weeks prior to the
are higher among those with HER2-negative disease. 577,578
initiation of endocrine therapy. Based on the results of the PERTAIN
trial,575 the NCCN Panel notes that if treatment was initiated with
PARP Inhibitors: The phase III OlympiAD trial randomized patients (n =
chemotherapy and trastuzumab plus pertuzumab, and the chemotherapy
302) with metastatic breast cancer harboring the germline BRCA
MS-70
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
mutations to the PARP inhibitor, olaparib (n = 205) or physician’s choice (n HER2-negative disease, the NCCN Panel supports use in any breast
= 97) of non-platinum chemotherapy (capecitabine, eribulin, or cancer subtype associated with germline BRCA1/2 mutations.
vinorelbine).579 An improvement in PFS was seen in those receiving
Platinums: The phase III TNT trial compared docetaxel with carboplatin in
olaparib relative to those receiving chemotherapy [7.0 vs. 4.2 months; HR,
0.58; 95% CI, 0.43–0.80; P < .001].579 The study, included all subtypes— the first-line setting in patients (n = 376) with triple-negative breast cancer.
In the unselected population, carboplatin was not more active than
those with HR-positive, HER2-negative and -positive, and triple-negative
docetaxel (ORR, 31.4% vs. 34.0%; P = .66). 582 Patients with a germline
disease. The PFS improvements noted with olaparib were noted in all
BRCA1/2 mutation had a significantly better response to carboplatin than
subtypes and were greatest in the triple-negative population. Subsequent
docetaxel (ORR, 68.0% vs. 33.3%, absolute difference, 34.7%; P = .03).
follow-up did not show a statistically significant difference in OS between
582 PFS was also improved with carboplatin treatment in patients with
treatment arms and the study was also not powered to evaluate OS. The
a germline BRCA1/2 mutation (median PFS, 6.8 months vs. 4.4 months);
median OS with olaparib compared with treatment of physician’s choice
no difference was found in OS. However, patients with somatic BRCA1/2
was 19.3 months versus 17.1 months, respectively (HR, 0.90; 95% CI,
0.66–1.23; P = .513).580 The QOL was significantly better in the olaparib mutation in the tumor DNA did not appear to have the same advantage.
arm. It is interesting to note that patients who had not received prior
For those with triple-negative recurrent/stage IV breast cancer and
chemotherapy in the metastatic setting achieved a 7.9-month longer
germline BRCA1/2 mutations, the NCCN Panel has included platinum
median OS with olaparib compared with treatment of physician’s choice.580
agents (cisplatin and carboplatin) as preferred treatment options. It is
unknown how PARP inhibitors compare with platinums in this setting.
The phase III EMBRACA trial of patients with advanced breast cancer
harboring the germline BRCA mutations and no prior exposure to a PARP
Systemic Chemotherapy for Recurrent or Stage IV Disease
inhibitor, were randomized to talazoparib (n = 287) or to physician’s choice
Patients with HR-negative tumors not localized to the bone or soft tissue
of single-agent chemotherapy (n = 144).581 The median PFS among
only, or that are associated with symptomatic visceral metastasis
patients in the talazoparib group was longer than in the control group (8.6
irrespective of HR- or HER-status, or that have HR-positive tumors that
months [95% CI, 7.2–9.3] vs. 5.6 months [95% CI, 4.2–6.7]; HR for
are refractory to endocrine therapy should receive systemic
disease progression or death, 0.54; 95% CI, 0.41–0.71; P < .001).581
chemotherapy.
Based on the results of the above phase III trials, the two FDA-approved
A variety of chemotherapy regimens are felt to be appropriate, as outlined
PARP inhibitors, olaparib and talazoparib, are included as category 1,
in the treatment algorithm. Combination chemotherapy generally provides
preferred options for those with germline BRCA1/2 mutations. The NCCN
higher rates of objective response and longer time to progression, in
Panel recommends assessing germline BRCA1/2 mutations in all patients
comparison to single-agent chemotherapy. Combination chemotherapy is,
with recurrent or metastatic breast cancer to identify candidates for PARP
however, associated with an increase in toxicity and is of little survival
inhibitor therapy. While olaparib and talazoparib are FDA-indicated in
benefit.583-587 Furthermore, administering single agents sequentially
decreases the likelihood that dose reductions will be needed. Thus, the
MS-71
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
NCCN Panel finds no compelling evidence that combination was 17.5 months versus 20.9 months for intermittent versus continuous
chemotherapy is superior to sequential single agents. Therefore, treatment (HR, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.00–1.91).594
sequential monotherapy is preferred and combination therapy is useful in
Determining the duration of chemotherapy in an individual patient typically
patients with rapid clinical progression or need for rapid symptom and/or
depends on the efficacy and tolerability and shared decision-making
disease control.
between the treating physician and patient.
Usually the first-line regimens are given until progression or unacceptable
Most patients will be candidates for multiple lines of systemic therapy for
toxicity. Considering what is unacceptable toxicity and considering no
palliation. At each reassessment clinicians should assess the value of
further cytotoxic therapy should be decided together with the patient.
ongoing treatment, the risks and benefits of an additional line of systemic
Adverse effects may require dose reduction and cessation of
therapy, patient performance status, and patient preferences through a
chemotherapy prior to disease progression.
shared decision-making process.
The NCCN Panel recommends considering scalp cooling to reduce
Preferred Chemotherapy Regimens for Stage IV or Recurrent Metastatic
incidence of chemotherapy-induced alopecia for patients receiving
Disease
chemotherapy. The data on efficacy of scalp cooling is mainly from the
The NCCN Panel has classified the chemotherapy agents into three
adjuvant setting and also show that results may be less effective with
categories: preferred, other recommended, and useful in certain
anthracycline-containing regimens.588-592
circumstances. The treatment decision should be individualized and
A meta-analysis showed favorable impact on OS by prolonging treatment consider previous therapies, pre-existing comorbidities, nature of the
until disease progression.593 In this analysis, data from four studies disease, toxicity profiles, patient preferences, and in some cases access
involving 666 patients indicated that median OS was increased by 23% to agents.
(95% CI, 9–38%; P = .01) in patients receiving longer durations of
chemotherapy versus a limited number of cycles.593 In a systematic Among preferred single agents, the NCCN Panel has included taxanes
(paclitaxel), anthracyclines (doxorubicin and liposomal doxorubicin),
review, longer durations of chemotherapy demonstrated a marginal
antimetabolites (capecitabine and gemcitabine), microtubule inhibitors
increase in OS (HR, 0.91; 95% CI, 0.84–0.99) and a significant
(eribulin and vinorelbine), and platinum agents for patients with triple-
improvement in PFS (HR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.6–0.72), compared with shorter
durations.587 negative tumors and germline BRCA1/2 mutations.
Paclitaxel can be administered weekly (80 mg/m2)595 or every 3 weeks
A more recent study of patients (n = 420) with HER2-negative, advanced
(175 mg/m2).596 A meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials that
breast cancer showed that intermittent first-line treatment with paclitaxel
compared weekly and every-3-week taxane regimens in advanced breast
plus bevacizumab was not inferior to continuous treatment. The median
cancer showed that compared with every-3-week treatment, weekly
overall PFS for intermittent versus continuous treatment was 7.4 months
and 9.7 months, respectively (HR, 1.17; 95% CI, 0.88–1.57). Median OS
MS-72
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
administration of paclitaxel resulted in an improvement in OS (HR, 0.78; 762) with metastatic breast cancer were randomized 2:1 to eribulin or
95% CI, 0.67–0.89).597 treatment of physician’s choice. OS was improved in patients assigned to
eribulin (median 13.1 months; 95% CI, 11.8–14.3) compared with those
Doxorubicin (60–75 mg/m2) every 3 weeks, or 20 mg/m2 weekly has
receiving other treatments (10.6 months, 9.3–12.5), a 19% statistically
shown an ORR between 30% to 47%.598-601 Liposomal doxorubicin (50 significant risk reduction (HR, 0.81; 95% CI, 0.66–0.99; P = .041).605
mg/m2 every 4 weeks) has been shown to have efficacy similar to
doxorubicin (60 mg/m2 every 3 weeks).602 It has also been shown to have A phase III trial compared eribulin with capecitabine in patients with
efficacy in the second-line setting for patients with metastatic breast metastatic breast cancer and showed that both treatments were similar
cancer.602 Compared with doxorubicin, liposomal doxorubicin has a less with respect to OS and PFS.606 The median PFS times for eribulin and
frequent dosing schedule, decreased risk of cardiotoxicity (7% vs. 26%; capecitabine were 4.1 and 4.2 months, respectively (HR, 1.08; 95% CI,
HR, 3.16; 95% CI, 1.58–6.31), decreased rate of nausea (37% vs. 53%) 0.93–1.25; P = .30), and the OS with eribulin versus capecitabine was
and vomiting (19% vs. 31%), lower rates of alopecia (20% vs. 66%), and 15.9 months versus 14.5 months (HR, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.77–1.00). 606
lower rates of neutropenia (4% vs. 10%).602 However, compared with
In addition to the above, gemcitabine607 and vinorelbine are both active as
doxorubicin it was associated with a higher rate of palmar-plantar
a single agents even in heavily pretreated patients with metastatic breast
erythrodysesthesia (48% vs. 2%), stomatitis (22% vs. 15%), and mucositis
cancer.608-610
(23% vs. 13%).602
Among other recommended single agents, the NCCN Panel has included
The benefit of capecitabine as a treatment option for patients with
taxanes (docetaxel,611 albumin-bound paclitaxel612-614), anthracyclines
metastatic breast cancer has been demonstrated in multiple phase II trials.
(epirubicin 615), and ixabepilone616-618 as other recommended regimens.
Results of one study of patients (n = 126) treated with capecitabine
showed an ORR of 28%, median time to progression of 4.9 months, and
Ixabepilone as monotherapy has been evaluated in several phase II trials
median OS of 15.2 months (95% CI, 13.5–19.6 months).603 In another
of patients with metastatic breast cancer: in a first-line setting in patients
study, patients (n = 95) were randomized to receive capecitabine or
previously treated with anthracycline chemotherapy 616; in patients with
cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil (CMF).604 Treatment
taxane-resistant metastatic breast cancer617; and in patients with
with single-agent capecitabine resulted in a higher ORR compared with
advanced breast cancer resistant to an anthracycline, a taxane, and
CMF (30% vs. 16%). The median time to progression and OS were similar
capecitabine.618 In the phase II trials, ORR, median duration of response,
in both groups.604
and median OS duration were 41.5% (95% CI, 29.4%–54.4%), 8.2 months
(95% CI, 5.7–10.2 months), and 22.0 months (95% CI, 15.6–27.0 months)
Eribulin is a non-taxane microtubule inhibitor used for the treatment of
in the first-line setting;616 12% (95% CI, 4.7%– 26.5%), 10.4 months, and
patients with metastatic breast cancer who have previously received at
7.9 months for the taxane-resistant patients;617 and 11.5% (95% CI, 6.3%–
least two chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of metastatic
18.9%), 5.7 months, and 8.6 months for the patients previously treated
disease. Prior therapy should have included an anthracycline and a taxane
with an anthracycline, a taxane, and capecitabine.618 In the study by Perez
in either the adjuvant or metastatic setting. In a phase III trial, patients (n =
MS-73
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
et al,618 grade 3/4 treatment-related toxicities included peripheral sensory and the median OS was 11.1 months with gemcitabine/carboplatin (HR,
neuropathy (14%) and neutropenia (54%). 0.88; 95% CI, 0.69–1.12).624
The NCCN Panel has included combination chemotherapy regimens as Several phase II studies have evaluated the efficacy of
useful in certain circumstances. The combination regimen options include paclitaxel/carboplatin as first-line treatment for patients with metastatic
doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (AC)619,620; epirubicin/cyclophosphamide breast cancer and found the combination to be an effective therapeutic
(EC)621; docetaxel/capecitabine585; gemcitabine/paclitaxel (GT)622; option in this setting.628,629 The randomized trial, tnAcity, evaluated the
cyclophosphamide/methotrexate/fluorouracil (CMF)623; gemcitabine/ efficacy and safety of first-line albumin-bound paclitaxel plus
carboplatin624-626; carboplatin with paclitaxel or albumin-bound paclitaxel627- carboplatin, albumin-bound paclitaxel plus gemcitabine, and gemcitabine
629; and paclitaxel/bevacizumab.630-632 plus carboplatin in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.627
The results of this trial reported that median PFS was significantly longer
For the doublet regimens that are included, randomized phase III trials
with albumin-bound paclitaxel plus carboplatin versus albumin-bound
have shown that the ORR with first-line AC treatment ranges from 47% to
paclitaxel/gemcitabine (8.3 vs. 5.5 months; HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.38–
54% and OS is around 20 months.619,620 For first-line EC, a phase III trial
0.92; P = .02) or gemcitabine/carboplatin (8.3 vs. 6.0 months; HR, 0.58;
reported the ORR of 55%, PFS of 7.1 months, and OS of 14 months.621
95% CI, 0.37–0.90; P = .02). The median OS was also longer
For first-line capecitabine/docetaxel, a phase III trial reported an ORR of
with albumin-bound paclitaxel plus carboplatin versus albumin-bound
53% and time to progression of 11 months.633 In the second-line setting,
paclitaxel/gemcitabine (16.8 vs. 12.1 months; HR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.47–
another phase III trial compared the efficacy and tolerability of
1.13; P = .16) or gemcitabine/carboplatin (16.8 vs. 12.6 months; HR, 0.80;
capecitabine/docetaxel therapy in anthracycline-pretreated patients and
95% CI, 0.52–1.22; P = .29). The ORR was 73%, 39%, and 44%,
showed significantly superior efficacy in time to disease progression (HR, respectively.627
0.652; 95% CI, 0.545–0.780; P = .0001; median, 6.1 vs. 4.2 months), OS
(HR, 0.775; 95% CI, 0.634–0.947; P = .0126; median, 14.5 vs. 11.5 The NCCN Panel notes that albumin-bound paclitaxel may be substituted
months), and ORR (42% vs. 30%, P = .006) compared with single-agent for paclitaxel or docetaxel due to medical necessity (ie, hypersensitivity
docetaxel.585 reaction). If substituted for weekly paclitaxel or docetaxel, then the weekly
dose of nab-paclitaxel should not exceed 125 mg/m2.
Combination chemotherapy regimens containing a platinum agent or a
taxane have been shown to be efficacious in patients with metastatic The only triplet regimen listed as an option in the metastatic setting is
triple-negative breast cancer. A randomized phase II study compared the CMF. This regimen was compared in the first-line setting with capecitabine
addition of iniparib to gemcitabine/carboplatin versus monotherapy, and results show similar ORR and PFS.623 However, CMF
gemcitabine/carboplatin in patients with triple-negative breast cancer who resulted in a shorter OS (median, 22 vs. 18 months; HR, 0.72; 95% CI,
had received no more than two prior chemotherapies. ORR was similar in 0.55–0.94) compared to capecitabine.
both groups, 30.2% (95% CI, 24.6–35.8) with gemcitabine/carboplatin,624
MS-74
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Additional Targeted Therapies for Stage IV Disease Useful in Certain Monitoring Metastatic Disease
Circumstances
Monitoring the treatment of metastatic breast cancer involves a wide array
NTRK gene fusions are seen in a few rare types of cancer, such as
of assessments and the need for the clinician to integrate several different
secretory carcinoma of the breast or salivary gland and infantile
forms of information to decide on the effectiveness of treatment and the
fibrosarcoma and also infrequently in some common cancers, such as
acceptability of toxicity. The information includes those from direct
melanoma, glioma, and carcinomas of the thyroid, lung, and
observations of the patient, including patient-reported symptoms,
colon.634 NTRK fusions are identified by fluorescence in situ hybridization
performance status, change in weight, and physical examination;
(FISH), next-generation sequencing (NGS), or polymerase chain reaction
laboratory tests such as alkaline phosphatase, liver function, blood counts,
(PCR). Larotrectinib635-637 and entrectinib637,638 are two NTRK inhibitors
and calcium; radiographic imaging; functional imaging; and, where
that are FDA-approved for the treatment of solid tumors that have an
appropriate, tumor biomarkers. The results of these evaluations generally
NTRK gene fusion without a known acquired resistance mutation and
are classified as response, continued response to treatment, stable
have no satisfactory alternative treatments or that have progressed
disease, uncertainty regarding disease status, or progression of disease.
following treatment. If a patient with recurrent/stage IV breast cancer
The clinician typically must assess and balance multiple different forms of
presents with a tumor with an NTRK fusion, treatment with an NTRK
information to decide, along with the patient, whether disease is being
inhibitor is an option if no satisfactory alternative treatments exist or for
controlled and the toxicity of treatment is acceptable. Sometimes individual
disease progression following treatment.
pieces of information can be conflicting with regard to disease response,
Pembrolizumab is FDA-approved for the treatment of patients with and clinical judgment along with patient input is critical.
unresectable or metastatic, microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) or
The NCCN Panel recommends using widely accepted criteria for reporting
mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) solid tumors that have progressed
response, stability, and progression of disease such as the RECIST
following prior treatment and who have no satisfactory alternative
criteria643 and the WHO criteria.644 The Panel also recommends using the
treatment options.639-641 Pembrolizumab has demonstrated anti-tumor
same method of response assessment over time. For example, an
activity in heavily pretreated patients with metastatic breast cancer and
abnormality initially found on diagnostic CT scan of the chest should be
high tumor mutational burden (≥9 mutations/megabase) determined by
monitored with repeat diagnostic CT scans of the chest.
commercially available tests.642 If a patient with recurrent/stage IV breast
cancer presents with a tumor with MSI-H/mismatch repair (MMR)
The optimal frequency of testing is uncertain and primarily based on the
mutation, whose disease has progressed following prior treatments and no
monitoring strategies utilized in breast cancer clinical trials. The page titled
satisfactory alternative treatment options, treatment pembrolizumab is an
Principles of Monitoring Metastatic Disease in the algorithm provides a
option.
table outlining general recommendations for the frequency and type of
monitoring as a baseline before initiation of a new therapy, for monitoring
the effectiveness of cytotoxic chemotherapy and endocrine therapy, and
as an assessment when there is evidence of disease progression. The
MS-75
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Panel has indicated in a footnote that the frequency of monitoring can be
reduced in patients who have long-term stable disease. These are
guidelines and should be modified for the individual patient using clinical
judgment, especially for those with stable or responding disease for long
periods of time.
The clinical use of circulating tumor cells (CTC) or circulating tumor DNA
(ctDNA) in metastatic breast cancer is not yet included in the NCCN
Guidelines for Breast Cancer for disease assessment and monitoring.
Patients with persistently increased CTC after 3 weeks of first-line
chemotherapy have a poor PFS and OS.645 In spite of its prognostic ability,
CTC count has failed to show a predictive value. A prospective,
randomized, phase 3 trial (SWOG S0500) evaluated the clinical utility of
serial enumeration of CTC in patients with metastatic breast cancer. 645
According to the study results, switching to an alternative cytotoxic therapy
after 3 weeks of first-line chemotherapy in patients with persistently
increased CTC did not affect either PFS or OS.645
MS-76
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Special Situations WBRT.651-655 The risk of ipsilateral breast recurrence after
breast-conserving NAC resection and RT with or without an associated
Paget Disease
cancer is similar to that with BCS and RT with the typical invasive or in situ
Paget disease of the breast is a rare manifestation of breast cancer
cancer.
characterized by neoplastic cells in the epidermis of the NAC.646 It most
commonly presents with eczema of the areola, bleeding, ulceration, and
For Paget disease without an associated cancer (ie, no palpable mass or
itching of the nipple. The diagnosis is often delayed because of the rare
imaging abnormality), it is recommended that BCS consist of removal of
nature of the condition and confusion with other dermatologic conditions.
the entire NAC with a negative margin of underlying breast tissue. In
There is an associated cancer elsewhere in the breast in up to about 80%
cases with an associated cancer elsewhere in the breast, the surgery
to 90% of cases.647-649 The associated cancers are not necessarily located
includes removal of the NAC with a negative margin and removal of the
adjacent to the NAC and may be either DCIS or invasive cancer.
peripheral cancer using standard breast-conserving technique to achieve
a negative margin. It is not necessary to remove the NAC and the
Patients with clinical signs that raise suspicion for Paget disease require a
peripheral cancer in continuity in a single surgical specimen or through a
complete history and physical examination and diagnostic breast imaging.
single incision. Mastectomy also remains an appropriate treatment option.
Any breast lesion identified by imaging or examination should be
evaluated according to the NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer Screening
ALN staging is not necessary when breast-conserving therapy is used to
and Diagnosis. The skin of the NAC should undergo surgical biopsy,
treat Paget disease with underlying DCIS without evidence of invasive
including the full thickness of the epidermis including at least a portion of
cancer following clinical examination, imaging evaluation, and
any clinically involved NAC. When biopsy of the NAC is positive for Paget
full-thickness skin biopsy of the involved NAC. In the presence of an
disease, breast MRI is recommended to define the extent of disease and
underlying invasive breast cancer treated with BCS, axillary surgery
identify additional disease.649,650
should be performed according to the Considerations for Surgical Axillary
Staging outlined in the NCCN Guidelines algorithm. In cases treated by
There are no category 1 data that specifically address local management
total mastectomy, axillary staging is recommended for patients with
of Paget disease. Systemic therapy is based on the stage and biological
invasive disease and should also be considered for patients with
characteristics of any underlying cancer, and is supported by the evidence
underlying DCIS without evidence of invasive disease. This is because the
cited in the relevant stage-specific breast cancer treatment guidelines.
final pathology may reveal an invasive cancer in the mastectomy
specimen and the mastectomy precludes subsequent sentinel node
Management of Paget disease has traditionally been total mastectomy
biopsy. Two retrospective studies have provided evidence for a high
with axillary dissection. Total mastectomy remains a reasonable option for
degree of accuracy in the identification of the sentinel node(s) in patients
patients regardless of the absence or presence of an associated breast
cancer.648 Data demonstrate that satisfactory local control may be with Paget disease.656,657 Patients treated with breast conservation should
receive whole breast radiation. Extended-field radiation to regional lymph
achieved with BCS including the excision with negative margins of any
nodes should be used in cases of an associated invasive breast cancer
underlying breast cancer along with resection of the NAC followed by
MS-77
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
with involved lymph nodes as for any breast cancer as described in the
initial sections of the NCCN Guidelines. A radiation boost should be
considered for the site of the resected NAC and any associated resected
cancer site, if applicable.
Patients with an associated invasive cancer have substantial risk of
developing metastases. Adjuvant systemic therapy should be
administered according to the stage of the cancer. Patients with Paget
disease treated with breast conservation and without an associated cancer
or those with associated ER-positive DCIS should consider tamoxifen for
risk reduction. Those with an associated invasive cancer should receive
adjuvant systemic therapy based on the stage and HR status.
MS-78
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Phyllodes Tumors of the Breast examination.663 In those patients who experience a local recurrence,
resection of the recurrence with wide, tumor-free surgical margins should
(also known as phyllodes tumors, cystosarcoma phyllodes)
Phyllodes tumors of the breast are rare tumors comprised of both stromal be performed. Some Panel members recommend local RT of the
and epithelial elements.658 Phyllodes tumors exist in benign, borderline, remaining breast or chest wall following resection of a local recurrence,
and malignant subtypes, although there is not uniform agreement on the but this recommendation is controversial (category 2B).664
criteria for assigning subtype or for predicting biological behavior.659 The
subtype of phyllodes tumor appears less important for risk of recurrence
While the epithelial component of most phyllodes tumors contains ER
than does the margin of tumor-free resection achieved by surgical
(58%) and/or PR (75%),665 endocrine therapy has no proven role in the
treatment. Diagnosis of phyllodes tumors prior to excisional
treatment of phyllodes tumors. Similarly, there is no evidence that adjuvant
biopsy/lumpectomy is uncommon. Phyllodes tumors occur in an older age
cytotoxic chemotherapy provides benefit in reduction of recurrences or
distribution than fibroadenoma, a younger age distribution than the
death. In the rare patient who experiences a systemic recurrence (usually
invasive ductal and lobular cancers, and with a mean age of 40 years.660
in the lung), treatment should be as recommended in the NCCN
Phyllodes tumors often enlarge rapidly and are usually painless. Phyllodes
Guidelines for Soft Tissue Sarcoma.
tumors often appear on ultrasound and mammography as fibroadenomas,
and FNA cytology and even core needle biopsy are inadequate to reliably
distinguish phyllodes tumors from fibroadenomas.660 Thus, in the setting of
a large or rapidly enlarging clinical fibroadenoma, excisional biopsy should
be considered to pathologically exclude a phyllodes tumor. Patients with
Li-Fraumeni syndrome (germline TP53 mutation, see NCCN Guidelines for
Genetic/Familial High Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian, and Pancreatic)
have an increased risk for phyllodes tumors.661 Local recurrences of
phyllodes tumors are the most common site of recurrence. Most distant
recurrences occur in the lung, and may be solid nodules or thin-walled
cavities.
Treatment of phyllodes tumors (which includes benign, borderline, and
malignant subtypes) is with local surgical excision with tumor-free margins
of ≥1 cm. Lumpectomy or partial mastectomy is the preferred surgical
therapy. Total mastectomy is necessary only if negative margins cannot
be obtained by lumpectomy or partial mastectomy.662 Since phyllodes
tumors rarely metastasize to the ALNs, surgical axillary staging or ALND is
not necessary unless the lymph nodes are pathologic on clinical
MS-79
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Breast Cancer During Pregnancy the treatment plan and influence the patient’s decision regarding
maintenance of the pregnancy. Assessment of the pregnancy should
Breast cancer occurring concurrently with pregnancy is an infrequent
include a maternal fetal medicine consultation and review of antecedent
clinical event. In a California registry study, there were 1.3 breast cancers
diagnosed per 10,000 live births.666 Unfortunately, breast cancer during maternal risks such as hypertension, diabetes, and complications with
prior pregnancies. Documentation of fetal growth and development and
pregnancy is most often ALN-positive and with larger primary tumor size.
fetal age by means of ultrasonographic assessment is appropriate.
Histologically the tumors are poorly differentiated, are more frequently
ER/PR-negative, and approximately 30% are HER2-positive.667,668 The Estimation of the date of the delivery will help with systemic chemotherapy
planning. In addition, maternal fetal medicine consultation should include
diagnosis is often delayed because neither the patient nor the physician
counseling regarding maintaining or terminating pregnancy. Counseling of
suspects malignancy.
the pregnant patient with breast cancer should include a review of the
Evaluation of the pregnant patient with suspected breast cancer should treatment options, which include mastectomy or BCS as well as the use of
include a physical examination with particular attention to the breast and systemic therapy. The most common surgical procedure has been
regional lymph nodes. Mammogram of the breast with shielding can be modified radical mastectomy. However, BCS is possible if RT can be
done safely and the accuracy is reported to be >80%.669 Ultrasound of the delayed to the postpartum period,670 and breast-conserving therapy during
breast and regional lymph nodes can be used to assess the extent of pregnancy does not appear to have a negative impact on survival.670,671
disease and also to guide biopsy. Ultrasound has been reported to be When surgery is performed at 25 weeks of gestation or later, obstetrical
abnormal in up to 100% of breast cancers occurring during pregnancy.669 and prenatal specialists must be onsite and immediately available in the
Biopsies for cytologic evaluation of a suspicious breast mass may be done event of precipitous delivery of a viable fetus.
with FNA of the breast and suspicious lymph nodes. However, the
Although there are a limited number of isolated case reports and small
preferred technique is core needle biopsy. This provides tissue for
retrospective studies evaluating use of SLNB in pregnant patients,672,673
histologic confirmation of invasive disease as well as adequate tissue for
the sensitivity and specificity of the procedure have not been established
HR and HER2 analyses.
in this setting. Thus, there are insufficient data on which to base
Staging assessment of the pregnant patient with breast cancer may be recommendations for its use in pregnant patients. Decisions related to use
guided by clinical disease stage. The staging studies should be tailored to of SLNB in pregnancy should be individualized. A review of the relative
minimize fetal exposure to radiation. For clinically node-negative T1–T2 and absolute contraindications to sentinel node biopsy concluded that
tumors, a chest x-ray (with shielding), liver function and renal function sentinel node biopsy should not be offered to pregnant patients <30 weeks
assessment, and a CBC with differential are appropriate. In patients who gestation.674 There are limited data with only case reports and estimations
have clinically node-positive or T3 breast lesions, in addition to the of fetal radiation dose regarding use of radioactive tracer (eg, technetium
aforementioned tests an ultrasound of the liver and consideration of a 99m sulfur colloid).675-677 Isosulfan blue or methylene blue dye for sentinel
screening MRI of the thoracic and lumbar spine without contrast may be node biopsy procedures is discouraged during pregnancy.
employed. The documentation of the presence of metastases may alter
MS-80
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
The indications for systemic chemotherapy are the same in the pregnant of these case reports indicated oligohydramnios or anhydramnios with
patient as in the non-pregnant patient with breast cancer, although administration of trastuzumab; fetal renal failure occurred in one case. If
chemotherapy should not be administered at any point during the first trastuzumab is otherwise indicated, it should be administered in the
trimester of pregnancy. The largest experience in pregnancy has been postpartum period; the Panel recommends against its use during
with anthracycline and alkylating agent chemotherapy.678,679 Collected data pregnancy.
of chemotherapy exposure in utero indicate that the first trimester has the
greatest risk of fetal malformation.680,681 Fetal malformation risks in the A single case report of first-trimester exposure to lapatinib during
treatment for breast cancer reported an uncomplicated delivery of a
second and third trimester are approximately 1.3%, not different than that
healthy female neonate.695
of fetuses not exposed to chemotherapy during pregnancy. If systemic
therapy is initiated, fetal monitoring prior to each chemotherapy cycle is
Endocrine therapy and RT are contraindicated during pregnancy.
appropriate. Chemotherapy during pregnancy should not be given after
Endocrine therapy and RT, if indicated, should thus not be initiated until
week 35 of pregnancy or within 3 weeks of planned delivery in order to
the postpartum period.
avoid the potential for hematologic complications during delivery. Data
from a single-institution prospective study indicate that FAC chemotherapy Communication between the oncologist and maternal fetal medicine
(5-fluorouraci 500 mg/m2 IV days 1 and 4, doxorubicin 50 mg/m2 by IV specialist is essential at every visit and for every treatment decision point
infusion over 72 hours, and cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2 IV day 1) may for the patient.
be given with relative safety during the second and third trimesters of
pregnancy.679 As reported by Gwyn et al, the median gestational age at
delivery was 38 weeks, more than 50% of the patients had a vaginal
delivery, and there were no fetal deaths.667 An update of this experience
reported on 57 patients treated with FAC in the adjuvant or neoadjuvant
setting. There were 57 live births. A survey of parents/guardians reported
on the health of 40 children. There was one child with Down syndrome
and two with congenital abnormalities (club foot, congenital bilateral
ureteral reflux). The children are reported to be healthy and progressing
well in school.679,682 Ondansetron, lorazepam, and dexamethasone can be
used as part of the pre-chemotherapy antiemetic regimen.
There are limited data on the use of taxanes during pregnancy.683-686 If
used, the NCCN Panel recommends weekly administration of paclitaxel
after the first trimester if clinically indicated by disease status. There are
only case reports of trastuzumab use during pregnancy.687-694 The majority
MS-81
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Inflammatory Breast Cancer The NCCN Panel acknowledges that studies focusing on genetic
characterization of IBC are needed to more clearly define IBC as a
IBC is a rare, aggressive form of breast cancer estimated to account for
1% to 6% of breast cancer cases in the United States.696,697 IBC is a disease entity and to optimize treatment.708,709 Nevertheless, current
evidence provides justification for a separate guideline for the workup and
clinical diagnosis that requires erythema and dermal edema (peau
treatment of patients diagnosed with IBC.
d’orange) of a third or more of the skin of the breast.
StageT4d, N0–N3, M0
IBC is usually HR-negative and is more frequently HER2-positive than the
usual ductal breast cancers. Studies on gene expression profiling of IBC Workup
have demonstrated that all the subtypes of IBC exist, but basal and HER2 Patients with a clinical/pathologic diagnosis of IBC without distant
overexpressed are more frequent.698-701 According to the 7th edition of the metastasis (stage T4d, N0–N3, M0) should undergo a thorough staging
AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, IBC is classified as stage IIIB, stage IIIC, evaluation by a multidisciplinary team.
or stage IV breast cancer, depending on the degree of nodal involvement
Recommendations for workup include a complete history and physical
and whether distant metastases are present. The primary tumor of IBC is
examination involving a CBC and platelet count.
classified as T4d by definition, even when no mass is specifically apparent
in the breast. On radiographic imaging, findings of skin thickening and, in
A pathology review and pre-chemotherapy determinations of tumor
some cases, an underlying mass are observed. Despite use of the term
HR- and HER2- status should be performed. HER2 has a predictive role in
“inflammatory,” the characteristic clinical features of IBC are due to
determining which patients with IBC will benefit from HER2-targeted
blockage of dermal lymphatics by tumor emboli. Although a biopsy is
therapy. The NCCN Panel endorses the CAP protocol for pathology
required to evaluate for the presence of cancer in breast tissue and the
reporting (www.cap.org) and endorses the ASCO CAP recommendations
dermal lymphatics, a diagnosis of IBC is based on clinical findings, and
for quality control performance of HER2 testing and interpretation of IHC
dermal lymphatic involvement is neither required, nor sufficient by itself, to
and ISH results.710
assign a diagnosis of IBC.702,703 The differential diagnosis includes cellulitis
of the breast and mastitis. Imaging studies help facilitate image-guided biopsy, delineate locoregional
disease, and identify distant metastases. Evaluation of all patients
In the past, IBC has often been placed under the general heading of
suspected with IBC must include diagnostic bilateral mammogram, with
locally advanced breast cancer. There is a growing body of evidence that
the addition of ultrasound as necessary. A breast MRI scan is optional.
patients with IBC, when compared with patients with noninflammatory
forms of locally advanced breast cancer, are more likely to have a less Evaluations for the presence of distant metastasis in the asymptomatic
favorable prognosis704-706 and to be younger at the time of disease patient include LFTs, bone scan or sodium fluoride PET/CT (category 2B),
presentation.707 and diagnostic CT imaging of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis (category
2B; category 2A for diagnostic CT imaging of the chest when pulmonary
symptoms are present).
MS-82
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
FDG-PET/CT may be most helpful in situations where standard imaging disease-specific survival were reported for the combined modality
results are equivocal or suspicious. However, there is limited evidence approach.713 Results from a large retrospective study of patients with IBC
suggesting that PET/CT may be a useful adjunct to standard imaging of performed over a 20-year period at The University of Texas MD Anderson
IBC due to the increased risk of regional lymph node involvement and Cancer Center demonstrated that initial treatment with doxorubicin-based
distant spread of disease in this group of patients.110,111,711,712 chemotherapy followed by local therapy (ie, RT or mastectomy, or both)
Nevertheless, equivocal or suspicious sites identified by FDG-PET/CT and additional postoperative chemotherapy resulted in a 15-year DFS rate
scanning or other imaging methods should be biopsied for confirmation of of 28%.714
stage IV disease whenever possible. FDG-PET/CT is a category 2B
A retrospective study demonstrated that the addition of a taxane to an
recommendation. The consensus of the Panel is that FDG-PET/CT can be
anthracycline-based regimen improved PFS and OS in patients with
performed at the same time as diagnostic CT. If FDG-PET and diagnostic
ER-negative IBC.715 A systematic review found evidence for an
CT are performed and both clearly indicate bone metastases, bone scan
association between the intensity of preoperative therapy and the
or sodium fluoride PET/CT may not be needed.
likelihood of a pCR.716 A study of IBC patients, with cytologically confirmed
Genetic counseling is recommended if the patient is considered to be at ALN metastases, treated with anthracycline-based chemotherapy with or
high risk for hereditary breast cancer as defined by the NCCN Guidelines without a taxane indicated that more patients receiving the
for Genetic/Familial High-Risk Assessment: Breast, Ovarian and anthracycline-taxane combination achieved a pCR compared with those
Pancreatic. who received only anthracycline-based therapy. In addition, patients who
had a pCR in the ALNs had superior OS and DFS compared with those
Treatment with residual axillary disease.717
The treatment of patients with IBC should involve a combined modality
approach696 comprising preoperative systemic therapy followed by surgery The NCCN Panel recommends preoperative systemic therapy with an
(mastectomy)andradiotherapy. anthracycline-based regimen with or without taxanes for the initial
treatment of patients with IBC. The Panel also recommends completing
Preoperative Chemotherapy
the planned chemotherapy prior to mastectomy. If the chemotherapy was
There are no large randomized trials evaluating the optimal systemic
not completed preoperatively, it should be completed postoperatively.
treatment of IBC, since it is a rare disease. The systemic therapy
recommendations are based on data from retrospective analyses, small Targeted Therapy
prospective studies, and data from non-IBC, locally advanced breast All patients with HR-positive IBC are recommended to receive endocrine
cancer. therapy sequentially after completing the planned preoperative systemic
therapy.
The benefit of preoperative systemic therapy followed by mastectomy over
preoperative systemic therapy alone in patients with IBC was shown in a HER2-positive IBC is associated with a poor prognosis.700,718 For patients
retrospective analysis in which lower local recurrence rates and longer with HER2-positive disease, the addition of trastuzumab to primary
MS-83
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
systemic chemotherapy is associated with better response rates.414,719-722 Mastectomy with level I/II ALND is the recommended surgical procedure
A prospective study that randomized patients with locally advanced breast recommended by the NCCN Panel for patients whose tumor responds to
cancers, including those with IBC, to neoadjuvant anthracycline-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The NCCN Panel has listed delayed breast
chemotherapy with or without trastuzumab for 1 year demonstrated that reconstruction as an option that can be recommended to patients with
the addition of trastuzumab significantly improved the response rate and IBC who have undergone a modified radical mastectomy. Reconstruction
event-free survival.414 The NCCN Panel recommends inclusion of of the breasts soon after mastectomy may compromise the
trastuzumab in the chemotherapy regimen and is recommended for post-mastectomy RT outcomes.727
patients with HER2-positive disease There are no available data to
For patients with IBC who do not respond to preoperative systemic
indicate the optimal duration of trastuzumab, specifically among patients
.
therapy, mastectomy is not generally recommended. Additional systemic
with IBC. However, based on the available data,414 the Panel recommends
chemotherapy and/or preoperative radiation should be considered for
continuing trastuzumab therapy for up to 1 year.
these patients. Patients with tumors responding to this secondary
Results of small phase II trials indicate that other HER2-targeting agents therapy should undergo mastectomy and subsequent treatment as
such as lapatinib and pertuzumab have a clinical benefit in IBC.723,724 The described above.
results of the NEOSPHERE trial that included patients with IBC showed
Radiation
increased pCR with the pertuzumab-containing regimens. Therefore, the
After mastectomy, RT is recommended after the completion of the
NCCN Panel has included in a footnote that a pertuzumab-containing
planned chemotherapy.
regimen may be administered preoperatively in patients with
HER2-positive IBC.724
The probability of locoregional lymph node involvement is high for
patients with IBC. To reduce the risk of local recurrence, the Panel
Determination of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in IBC should
recommends RT to the chest wall and the supraclavicular region. If the
include a combination of physical examination and radiologic assessment.
internal mammary lymph node(s) is clinically or pathologically involved,
Surgery RT should include the internal mammary nodes. If the internal mammary
Patients with a clinical/pathologic diagnosis of IBC should always be nodes are not clinically or pathologically involved, then including the
treated with chemotherapy before surgery. It has been known for many internal mammary nodes in the RT field is at the discretion of the treating
years that surgical treatment as primary treatment of patients with IBC is radiation oncologist (category 3). For HER2-positive disease,
associated with poor outcomes.725 SLN dissection is not a reliable method trastuzumab may be administered concomitantly with RT.
of assessing ALNs among patients with IBC.726 Use of BCS in patients
Stage IV or Recurrent IBC
with IBC has been associated with poor cosmesis, and limited data
Patients with stage IV or recurrent IBC should be treated according to
suggest that rates of local recurrence may be higher when compared with
the guidelines for recurrence/stage IV breast cancer.
mastectomy. Breast-conserving therapy is not recommended for patients
with IBC.
MS-84
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Axillary Breast Cancer without any signs of a primary tumor. A small subset of these patients
may have a primary cancer in the axillary tail of the breast.
Occult breast cancer presenting with axillary metastases is an unusual
Adenocarcinoma with positive axillary nodes and mediastinal nodes is
presentation that can be a diagnostic and therapeutic challenge.
highly suggestive of a breast primary. Adenocarcinoma in the
Evidence to support recommendations for patients presenting with
supraclavicular nodes, chest, peritoneum, retroperitoneum, liver, bone,
axillary breast cancer comes from a limited number of retrospective
studies involving small numbers of patients728-730 (see also references or brain could also indicate primary breast cancer in patients. The
guidelines suggest the use of a mammogram and breast ultrasound for
therein). Although treatment of patients with axillary metastases from an
such patients.
unknown primary tumor has typically involved mastectomy and axillary
nodal dissection, some of these patients have also been successfully
Testing for immunohistochemical markers including ER/PR and HER2 is
treated with axillary nodal dissection followed by RT.729,730
recommended. Elevated ER/PR levels provide strong evidence for a
breast cancer diagnosis.732 MRI of the breast should be considered for a
Patients with a suspected occult primary breast cancer will typically
patient with histopathologic evidence of breast cancer when
present to the oncologist after undergoing an initial biopsy: core needle
mammography and ultrasound are not adequate to assess the extent of
biopsy (preferred), and/or FNA. Accurate pathologic assessment of the
the disease. MRI may be especially helpful in patients with dense breast
biopsied material is most important. Therefore, the pathologist must be
tissue, positive axillary nodes, and suspected occult primary breast
consulted to determine whether the available biopsy material is
tumor or to evaluate the chest wall.733 Breast MRI has been shown to be
adequate, or if additional biopsy material is necessary (eg, core needle,
useful in identifying the primary site in patients with occult primary breast
incisional, or excisional biopsy) to provide an accurate and complete
cancer and may also facilitate breast conservation in selected patients by
diagnosis.
allowing for lumpectomy instead of mastectomy.729,734 In one report, the
Workup for Possible Primary Breast Cancer primary site was identified using MRI in about half of the patients
MRI of the breast can facilitate the identification of occult breast cancer, presenting with axillary metastases, irrespective of the breast density.735
and can help select those patients most likely to benefit from
mastectomy.731 For example, in a study of 40 patients with biopsy-proven The NCCN Guidelines for Occult Primary also provide recommendations
for additional workup, including chest and abdominal CT to evaluate for
breast cancer in the axilla, and a negative or indeterminate
evidence of distant metastases for patients diagnosed with
mammogram, MRI identified the primary breast lesion in 70% of the
patients.729 In addition, of the 7 patients with a negative MRI who adenocarcinoma (or carcinoma not otherwise specified) of the axillary
nodes without evidence of a primary breast lesion. In particular, breast
subsequently underwent ALND and RT to the whole breast, no evidence
MRI and ultrasound are recommended. Axillary ultrasound should also
of local recurrence was evident at a median follow-up of 19 months.
be performed.
The NCCN Guidelines for Occult Primary provide guidance on the
diagnosis and initial workup of patients with a suspicious axillary mass
MS-85
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Treatment for Possible Primary Breast Cancer
Patients with MRI-positive breast disease should undergo evaluation with
ultrasound or MRI-guided biopsy and receive treatment according to the
clinical stage of the breast cancer. Treatment recommendations for those
with MRI-negative disease are based on nodal status. For patients with
T0, N1, M0 disease, options include mastectomy plus axillary nodal
dissection or axillary nodal dissection plus whole breast irradiation with
or without nodal irradiation. Systemic chemotherapy, endocrine therapy,
or trastuzumab is given according to the recommendations for stage II or
III disease. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy, trastuzumab, and endocrine
therapy should be considered for patients with T0, N2–N3, M0 disease
followed by axillary nodal dissection and mastectomy as for patients with
locally advanced disease.
Summary
The therapeutic options for patients with noninvasive or invasive breast
cancer are complex and varied. In many situations, the patient and
physician have the responsibility to jointly explore and select the most
appropriate option from among the available alternatives. With few
exceptions, the evaluation, treatment, and follow-up recommendations in
these guidelines are based on the results of past and present clinical
trials. However, there is not a single clinical situation in which the
treatment of breast cancer has been optimized with respect to either
maximizing cure or minimizing toxicity and disfigurement. Therefore,
patient/physician participation in prospective clinical trials allows patients
to not only receive state-of-the-art cancer treatment but also to contribute
to improving the treatment outcomes.
MS-86
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
References 10. Cobleigh MA, Anderson SJ, Siziopikou KP, et al. Comparison of
Radiation With or Without Concurrent Trastuzumab for HER2-Positive
1. Siegel RL, Miller KD, Fuchs HE, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2022. CA:
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ Resected by Lumpectomy: A Phase III Clinical
A Cancer Journal for Clinicians 2022;72:7-33. Available at:
Trial. Journal of Clinical Oncology 2021;39:2367-2374. Available at:
https://acsjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.3322/caac.21708.
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.20.02824.
2. Siegel RL, Giaquinto AN, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2024. CA Cancer
11. Kuhl CK, Schrading S, Bieling HB, et al. MRI for diagnosis of pure
J Clin 2024;74:12-49. Available at:
ductal carcinoma in situ: a prospective observational study. Lancet
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38230766.
2007;370:485-492. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17693177.
3. U.S. National Library of Medicine-Key MEDLINE® Indicators.
Available at: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/bsd/bsd_key.html.
12. Allen LR, Lago-Toro CE, Hughes JH, et al. Is there a role for MRI in
the preoperative assessment of patients with DCIS? Ann Surg Oncol
4. http://www.cap.org. Accessed April, 2022.
2010;17:2395-2400. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20217259.
5. Allison KH, Hammond MEH, Dowsett M, et al. Estrogen and
progesterone receptor testing in breast cancer: American Society of
13. Davis KL, Barth RJ, Jr., Gui J, et al. Use of MRI in preoperative
Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists guideline update.
planning for women with newly diagnosed DCIS: risk or benefit? Ann
Arch Pathol Lab Med 2020;144:545-563. Available at:
Surg Oncol 2012;19:3270-3274. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31928354.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22911365.
6. Kerlikowske K, Molinaro AM, Gauthier ML, et al. Biomarker expression
14. Pilewskie M, Olcese C, Eaton A, et al. Perioperative breast MRI is
and risk of subsequent tumors after initial ductal carcinoma in situ
not associated with lower locoregional recurrence rates in DCIS patients
diagnosis. J Natl Cancer Inst 2010;102:627-637. Available at:
treated with or without radiation. Ann Surg Oncol 2014;21:1552-1560.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20427430.
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24385207.
7. Stackievicz R, Paran H, Bernheim J, et al. Prognostic significance of
15. Lam DL, Smith J, Partridge SC, et al. The impact of preoperative
HER-2/neu expression in patients with ductal carcinoma in situ. Isr Med
breast MRI on surgical management of women with newly diagnosed
Assoc J 2010;12:290-295. Available at:
Ductal Carcinoma In Situ. Acad Radiol 2020;27:478-486. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20929083.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31281083.
8. Zhou W, Jirstrom K, Johansson C, et al. Long-term survival of women
16. Chou SS, Romanoff J, Lehman CD, et al. Preoperative breast MRI
with basal-like ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast: a population-based
for newly diagnosed ductal carcinoma in situ: Imaging features and
cohort study. BMC Cancer 2010;10:653. Available at:
performance in a multicenter setting (ECOG-ACRIN E4112 trial).
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21118480.
Radiology 2021;301:66-77. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34342501.
9. Lari SA, Kuerer HM. Biological markers in DCIS and risk of breast
recurrence: A systematic review. J Cancer 2011;2:232-261. Available at:
17. Bijker N, Meijnen P, Peterse JL, et al. Breast-conserving treatment
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21552384.
with or without radiotherapy in ductal carcinoma-in-situ: ten-year results
MS-87
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
of European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer 2011;103:478-488. Available at:
randomized phase III trial 10853--a study by the EORTC Breast Cancer http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21398619.
Cooperative Group and EORTC Radiotherapy Group. J Clin Oncol
2006;24:3381-3387. Available at: 24. McCormick B, Winter K, Hudis C, et al. RTOG 9804: a prospective
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16801628. randomized trial for good-risk ductal carcinoma in situ comparing
radiotherapy with observation. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:709-715. Available
18. Emdin SO, Granstrand B, Ringberg A, et al. SweDCIS: Radiotherapy at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25605856.
after sector resection for ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast. Results
of a randomised trial in a population offered mammography screening. 25. Holmberg L, Garmo H, Granstrand B, et al. Absolute risk reductions
Acta Oncol 2006;45:536-543. Available at: for local recurrence after postoperative radiotherapy after sector
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16864166. resection for ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast. J Clin Oncol
2008;26:1247-1252. Available at:
19. Fisher B, Dignam J, Wolmark N, et al. Lumpectomy and radiation http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18250350.
therapy for the treatment of intraductal breast cancer: findings from
National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project B-17. J Clin Oncol 26. Goodwin A, Parker S, Ghersi D, Wilcken N. Post-operative
1998;16:441-452. Available at: radiotherapy for ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast--a systematic
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9469327. review of the randomised trials. Breast 2009;18:143-149. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19447038.
20. Houghton J, George WD, Cuzick J, et al. Radiotherapy and
tamoxifen in women with completely excised ductal carcinoma in situ of 27. Narod SA, Iqbal J, Giannakeas V, et al. Breast cancer mortality after
the breast in the UK, Australia, and New Zealand: randomised controlled a diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ. JAMA Oncol 2015;1:888-896.
trial. Lancet 2003;362:95-9102. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26291673.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12867108.
28. Sagara Y, Freedman RA, Vaz-Luis I, et al. Patient prognostic score
21. Julien JP, Bijker N, Fentiman IS, et al. Radiotherapy in breast- and associations with survival improvement offered by radiotherapy after
conserving treatment for ductal carcinoma in situ: first results of the breast-conserving surgery for ductal carcinoma in situ: A population-
EORTC randomised phase III trial 10853. EORTC Breast Cancer based longitudinal cohort study. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:1190-1196.
Cooperative Group and EORTC Radiotherapy Group. Lancet Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26834064.
2000;355:528-533. Available at:
29. Giannakeas V, Sopik V, Narod SA. Association of radiotherapy with
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10683002.
survival in women treated for ductal carcinoma in situ with lumpectomy
22. Cuzick J, Sestak I, Pinder SE, et al. Effect of tamoxifen and or mastectomy. JAMA Netw Open 2018;1:e181100. Available at:
radiotherapy in women with locally excised ductal carcinoma in situ: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30646103.
long-term results from the UK/ANZ DCIS trial. Lancet Oncol 2011;12:21-
30. Bartelink H, Horiot JC, Poortmans PM, et al. Impact of a higher
29. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21145284.
radiation dose on local control and survival in breast-conserving therapy
23. Wapnir IL, Dignam JJ, Fisher B, et al. Long-term outcomes of of early breast cancer: 10-year results of the randomized boost versus
invasive ipsilateral breast tumor recurrences after lumpectomy in NSABP no boost EORTC 22881-10882 trial. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3259-3265.
B-17 and B-24 randomized clinical trials for DCIS. J Natl Cancer Inst Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17577015.
MS-88
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
31. Bartelink H, Maingon P, Poortmans P, et al. Whole-breast irradiation 38. Gilleard O, Goodman A, Cooper M, et al. The significance of the Van
with or without a boost for patients treated with breast-conserving Nuys prognostic index in the management of ductal carcinoma in situ.
surgery for early breast cancer: 20-year follow-up of a randomised phase World J Surg Oncol 2008;6:61-61. Available at:
3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2015;16:47-56. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18564426.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25500422.
39. Silverstein MJ, Lagios MD, Craig PH, et al. A prognostic index for
32. Romestaing P, Lehingue Y, Carrie C, et al. Role of a 10-Gy boost in ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast. Cancer 1996;77:2267-2274.
the conservative treatment of early breast cancer: results of a Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8635094.
randomized clinical trial in Lyon, France. J Clin Oncol 1997;15:963-968.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9060534. 40. Silverstein MJ, Lagios MD, Groshen S, et al. The influence of margin
width on local control of ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast. N Engl J
33. Polgar C, Fodor J, Orosz Z, et al. Electron and high-dose-rate Med 1999;340:1455-1461. Available at:
brachytherapy boost in the conservative treatment of stage I-II breast http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10320383.
cancer first results of the randomized Budapest boost trial. Strahlenther
Onkol 2002;178:615-623. Available at: 41. Hughes LL, Wang M, Page DL, et al. Local excision alone without
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12426672. irradiation for ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast: a trial of the Eastern
Cooperative Oncology Group. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5319-5324.
34. Moran MS, Zhao Y, Ma S, et al. Association of radiotherapy boost for Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19826126.
ductal carcinoma in situ with local control after whole-breast
radiotherapy. JAMA Oncol 2017;3:1060-1068. Available at: 42. McCormick B, Winter KA, Woodward W, et al. Randomized phase III
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28358936. trial evaluating radiation following surgical excision for good-risk ductal
carcinoma in situ: Long-term report from NRG Oncology/RTOG 9804. J
35. King MT, Link EK, Whelan TJ, et al. Quality of life after breast- Clin Oncol 2021;39:3574-3582. Available at:
conserving therapy and adjuvant radiotherapy for non-low-risk ductal https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34406870.
carcinoma in situ (BIG 3-07/TROG 07.01): 2-year results of a
randomised, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:685-698. 43. Vicini FA, Cecchini RS, White JR, et al. Long-term primary results of
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32203696. accelerated partial breast irradiation after breast-conserving surgery for
early-stage breast cancer: a randomised, phase 3, equivalence trial.
36. Chua BH, Link E, Kunkler I, et al. Abstract GS2-04: A randomized Lancet 2019;394:2155-2164. Available at:
phase III study of radiation doses and fractionation schedules in non-low https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31813636.
risk ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the breast (BIG 3-07/TROG
07.01). Cancer Research 2021;81:GS2-04-GS02-04. Available at: 44. Whelan TJ, Julian JA, Berrang TS, et al. External beam accelerated
https://doi.org/10.1158/1538-7445.SABCS20-GS2-04. partial breast irradiation versus whole breast irradiation after breast
conserving surgery in women with ductal carcinoma in situ and node-
37. Di Saverio S, Catena F, Santini D, et al. 259 Patients with DCIS of negative breast cancer (RAPID): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet
the breast applying USC/Van Nuys prognostic index: a retrospective 2019;394:2165-2172. Available at:
review with long term follow up. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2008;109:405- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31813635.
416. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17687650.
MS-89
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
45. Livi L, Meattini I, Marrazzo L, et al. Accelerated partial breast 51. Cody HS, Van Zee KJ. Point: sentinel lymph node biopsy is indicated
irradiation using intensity-modulated radiotherapy versus whole breast for patients with DCIS. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2003;1:199-206.
irradiation: 5-year survival analysis of a phase 3 randomised controlled Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19768878.
trial. Eur J Cancer 2015;51:451-463. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25605582. 52. Edge SB, Sheldon DG. Counterpoint: sentinel lymph node biopsy is
not indicated for ductal carcinoma in situ. J Natl Compr Canc Netw
46. Strnad V, Ott OJ, Hildebrandt G, et al. 5-year results of accelerated 2003;1:207-212. Available at:
partial breast irradiation using sole interstitial multicatheter http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19768879.
brachytherapy versus whole-breast irradiation with boost after breast-
conserving surgery for low-risk invasive and in-situ carcinoma of the 53. Lyman GH, Giuliano AE, Somerfield MR, et al. American Society of
female breast: a randomised, phase 3, non-inferiority trial. Lancet Clinical Oncology guideline recommendations for sentinel lymph node
2016;387:229-238. Available at: biopsy in early-stage breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:7703-7720.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26494415. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16157938.
47. Morrow M, Van Zee KJ, Solin LJ, et al. Society of Surgical Oncology- 54. Virnig BA, Tuttle TM, Shamliyan T, Kane RL. Ductal carcinoma in situ
American Society for Radiation Oncology-American Society of Clinical of the breast: a systematic review of incidence, treatment, and outcomes.
Oncology consensus guideline on margins for breast-conserving surgery J Natl Cancer Inst 2010;102:170-178. Available at:
with whole-breast irradiation in ductal carcinoma in situ. Pract Radiat http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20071685.
Oncol 2016;6:287-295. Available at:
55. Brennan ME, Turner RM, Ciatto S, et al. Ductal carcinoma in situ at
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27538810.
core-needle biopsy: meta-analysis of underestimation and predictors of
48. MacDonald HR, Silverstein MJ, Mabry H, et al. Local control in ductal invasive breast cancer. Radiology 2011;260:119-128. Available at:
carcinoma in situ treated by excision alone: incremental benefit of larger http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21493791.
margins. Am J Surg 2005;190:521-525. Available at:
56. Fisher B, Costantino JP, Wickerham DL, et al. Tamoxifen for the
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16164913.
prevention of breast cancer: current status of the National Surgical
49. Dunne C, Burke JP, Morrow M, Kell MR. Effect of margin status on Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project P-1 study. J Natl Cancer Inst
local recurrence after breast conservation and radiation therapy for 2005;97:1652-1662. Available at:
ductal carcinoma in situ. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1615-1620. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16288118.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19255332.
57. Fisher B, Costantino JP, Wickerham DL, et al. Tamoxifen for
50. Van Zee KJ, Subhedar P, Olcese C, et al. Relationship between prevention of breast cancer: report of the National Surgical Adjuvant
margin width and recurrence of ductal carcinoma in situ: Analysis of Breast and Bowel Project P-1 Study. J Natl Cancer Inst 1998;90:1371-
2996 women treated with breast-conserving surgery for 30 years. Ann 1388. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9747868.
Surg 2015;262:623-631. Available at:
58. Tan-Chiu E, Wang J, Costantino JP, et al. Effects of tamoxifen on
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26366541.
benign breast disease in women at high risk for breast cancer. J Natl
Cancer Inst 2003;95:302-307. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12591986.
MS-90
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
59. Effects of chemotherapy and hormonal therapy for early breast 66. Gundry KR. The application of breast MRI in staging and screening
cancer on recurrence and 15-year survival: an overview of the for breast cancer. Oncology (Williston Park) 2005;19:159-169. Available
randomised trials. Lancet 2005;365:1687-1717. Available at: at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15770888.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15894097.
67. Houssami N, Ciatto S, Macaskill P, et al. Accuracy and surgical
60. Allred DC, Anderson SJ, Paik S, et al. Adjuvant tamoxifen reduces impact of magnetic resonance imaging in breast cancer staging:
subsequent breast cancer in women with estrogen receptor-positive systematic review and meta-analysis in detection of multifocal and
ductal carcinoma in situ: a study based on NSABP protocol B-24. J Clin multicentric cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:3248-3258. Available at:
Oncol 2012;30:1268-1273. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18474876.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22393101.
68. Weber JJ, Bellin LS, Milbourn DE, et al. Selective preoperative
61. DeCensi A, Puntoni M, Guerrieri-Gonzaga A, et al. Randomized magnetic resonance imaging in women with breast cancer: no reduction
placebo controlled trial of low-dose tamoxifen to prevent local and in the reoperation rate. Arch Surg 2012;147:834-839. Available at:
contralateral recurrence in breast intraepithelial neoplasia. J Clin Oncol http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22987175.
2019;37:1629-1637. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30973790. 69. Feigelson HS, James TA, Single RM, et al. Factors associated with
the frequency of initial total mastectomy: results of a multi-institutional
62. Forbes JF, Sestak I, Howell A, et al. Anastrozole versus tamoxifen study. J Am Coll Surg 2013;216:966-975. Available at:
for the prevention of locoregional and contralateral breast cancer in http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23490543.
postmenopausal women with locally excised ductal carcinoma in situ
(IBIS-II DCIS): a double-blind, randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2015. 70. Katipamula R, Degnim AC, Hoskin T, et al. Trends in mastectomy
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26686313. rates at the Mayo Clinic Rochester: effect of surgical year and
preoperative magnetic resonance imaging. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:4082-
63. Margolese RG, Cecchini RS, Julian TB, et al. Anastrozole versus 4088. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19636020.
tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with ductal carcinoma in situ
undergoing lumpectomy plus radiotherapy (NSABP B-35): a randomised, 71. Sorbero ME, Dick AW, Beckjord EB, Ahrendt G. Diagnostic breast
double-blind, phase 3 clinical trial. Lancet 2015. Available at: magnetic resonance imaging and contralateral prophylactic mastectomy.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26686957. Ann Surg Oncol 2009;16:1597-1605. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19330381.
64. Louie RJ, Tonneson JE, Gowarty M, et al. Complete blood counts,
liver function tests, and chest x-rays as routine screening in early-stage 72. Miller BT, Abbott AM, Tuttle TM. The influence of preoperative MRI
breast cancer: value added or just cost? Breast Cancer Res Treat 2015. on breast cancer treatment. Ann Surg Oncol 2012;19:536-540. Available
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26467045. at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21751044.
65. Esserman L. Integration of imaging in the management of breast 73. Peters NH, van Esser S, van den Bosch MA, et al. Preoperative MRI
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:1601-1602. Available at: and surgical management in patients with nonpalpable breast cancer:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15755961. the MONET - randomised controlled trial. Eur J Cancer 2011;47:879-
886. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21195605.
MS-91
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
74. Turnbull LW, Brown SR, Olivier C, et al. Multicentre randomised 81. Frei KA, Bonel HM, Pelte MF, et al. Paget disease of the breast:
controlled trial examining the cost-effectiveness of contrast-enhanced findings at magnetic resonance imaging and histopathologic correlation.
high field magnetic resonance imaging in women with primary breast Invest Radiol 2005;40:363-367. Available at:
cancer scheduled for wide local excision (COMICE). Health Technol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15905723.
Assess 2010;14:1-182. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20025837. 82. Monticciolo DL, Newell MS, Moy L, et al. Breast cancer screening in
women at higher-than-average risk: Recommendations from the ACR. J
75. Fischer U, Zachariae O, Baum F, et al. The influence of preoperative Am Coll Radiol 2018;15:408-414. Available at:
MRI of the breasts on recurrence rate in patients with breast cancer. Eur https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29371086.
Radiol 2004;14:1725-1731. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15248080. 83. Baucom DH, Porter LS, Kirby JS, et al. Psychosocial issues
confronting young women with breast cancer. Breast Dis 2005;23:103-
76. Solin LJ, Orel SG, Hwang W-T, et al. Relationship of breast magnetic 113. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16823173.
resonance imaging to outcome after breast-conservation treatment with
radiation for women with early-stage invasive breast carcinoma or ductal 84. Dunn J, Steginga SK. Young women's experience of breast cancer:
carcinoma in situ. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:386-391. Available at: defining young and identifying concerns. Psychooncology 2000;9:137-
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18202414. 146. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10767751.
77. Bleicher RJ, Ciocca RM, Egleston BL, et al. Association of routine 85. Ganz PA, Greendale GA, Petersen L, et al. Breast cancer in younger
pretreatment magnetic resonance imaging with time to surgery, women: reproductive and late health effects of treatment. J Clin Oncol
mastectomy rate, and margin status. J Am Coll Surg 2009;209:180-187; 2003;21:4184-4193. Available at:
quiz 294-185. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14615446.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19632594.
86. Gorman JR, Bailey S, Pierce JP, Su HI. How do you feel about
78. Turnbull L, Brown S, Harvey I, et al. Comparative effectiveness of fertility and parenthood? The voices of young female cancer survivors. J
MRI in breast cancer (COMICE) trial: a randomised controlled trial. Cancer Surviv 2012;6:200-209. Available at:
Lancet 2010;375:563-571. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22179785.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20159292.
87. Howard-Anderson J, Ganz PA, Bower JE, Stanton AL. Quality of life,
79. de Bresser J, de Vos B, van der Ent F, Hulsewe K. Breast MRI in fertility concerns, and behavioral health outcomes in younger breast
clinically and mammographically occult breast cancer presenting with an cancer survivors: a systematic review. J Natl Cancer Inst 2012;104:386-
axillary metastasis: a systematic review. Eur J Surg Oncol 2010;36:114- 405. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22271773.
119. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19822403.
88. Kranick JA, Schaefer C, Rowell S, et al. Is pregnancy after breast
80. Morrogh M, Morris EA, Liberman L, et al. MRI identifies otherwise cancer safe? Breast J 2010;16:404-411. Available at:
occult disease in select patients with Paget disease of the nipple. J Am http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20522097.
Coll Surg 2008;206:316-321. Available at:
89. Sukumvanich P, Case LD, Van Zee K, et al. Incidence and time
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18222386.
course of bleeding after long-term amenorrhea after breast cancer
MS-92
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
treatment: a prospective study. Cancer 2010;116:3102-3111. Available 2011;117:4-10. Available at:
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20564648. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21235031.
90. Quinn GP, Block RG, Clayman ML, et al. If you did not document it, it 98. Lee S, Ozkavukcu S, Heytens E, et al. Value of early referral to
did not happen: rates of documentation of discussion of infertility risk in fertility preservation in young women with breast cancer. J Clin Oncol
adolescent and young adult oncology patients' medical records. J Oncol 2010;28:4683-4686. Available at:
Pract 2015;11:137-144. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20876425.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25549654.
99. Peate M, Meiser B, Friedlander M, et al. It's now or never: fertility-
91. Yee S, Abrol K, McDonald M, et al. Addressing oncofertility needs: related knowledge, decision-making preferences, and treatment
views of female cancer patients in fertility preservation. J Psychosoc intentions in young women with breast cancer--an Australian fertility
Oncol 2012;30:331-346. Available at: decision aid collaborative group study. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:1670-1677.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22571247. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21444865.
92. Yeomanson DJ, Morgan S, Pacey AA. Discussing fertility 100. Blumenfeld Z, Evron A. Preserving fertility when choosing
preservation at the time of cancer diagnosis: dissatisfaction of young chemotherapy regimens - the role of gonadotropin-releasing hormone
females. Pediatr Blood Cancer 2013;60:1996-2000. Available at: agonists. Expert Opin Pharmacother 2015;16:1009-1020. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23836521. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25826240.
93. Loren AW, Mangu PB, Beck LN, et al. Fertility preservation for 101. Del Mastro L, Lambertini M. Temporary ovarian suppression with
patients with cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist during chemotherapy for fertility
practice guideline update. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:2500-2510. Available at: preservation: Toward the end of the debate? Oncologist 2015;20:1233-
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23715580. 1235. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26463868.
94. Cruz MR, Prestes JC, Gimenes DL, Fanelli MF. Fertility preservation 102. Lambertini M, Peccatori FA, Moore HC, Del Mastro L. Reply to the
in women with breast cancer undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy: a letter to the editor 'Can ovarian suppression with gonadotropin releasing
systematic review. Fertil Steril 2010;94:138-143. Available at: hormone analogs (GnRHa) preserve fertility in cancer patients?' by
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19339000. Rodriguez-Wallberg et al. Ann Oncol 2015. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26646756.
95. Dunn L, Fox KR. Techniques for fertility preservation in patients with
breast cancer. Curr Opin Obstet Gynecol 2009;21:68-73. Available at: 103. Moore HC, Unger JM, Phillips KA, et al. Goserelin for ovarian
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19125006. protection during breast-cancer adjuvant chemotherapy. N Engl J Med
2015;372:923-932. Available at:
96. Oktem O, Oktay K. Fertility preservation for breast cancer patients.
Semin Reprod Med 2009;27:486-492. Available at: 104. Moffat R, Guth U. Preserving fertility in patients undergoing
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19806518. treatment for breast cancer: current perspectives. Breast Cancer (Dove
Med Press) 2014;6:93-101. Available at:
97. Redig AJ, Brannigan R, Stryker SJ, et al. Incorporating fertility http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25114587.
preservation into the care of young oncology patients. Cancer
MS-93
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
105. Oktay K, Turan V, Bedoschi G, et al. Fertility preservation success 113. Arriagada R, Le MG, Rochard F, Contesso G. Conservative
subsequent to concurrent aromatase inhibitor treatment and ovarian treatment versus mastectomy in early breast cancer: patterns of failure
stimulation in women with breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:2424- with 15 years of follow-up data. Institut Gustave-Roussy Breast Cancer
2429. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26101247. Group. J Clin Oncol 1996;14:1558-1564. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8622072.
106. Ravaioli A, Pasini G, Polselli A, et al. Staging of breast cancer: new
recommended standard procedure. Breast Cancer Res Treat 114. Clarke M, Collins R, Darby S, et al. Effects of radiotherapy and of
2002;72:53-60. Available at: differences in the extent of surgery for early breast cancer on local
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12000220. recurrence and 15-year survival: an overview of the randomised trials.
Lancet 2005;366:2087-2106. Available at:
107. Puglisi F, Follador A, Minisini AM, et al. Baseline staging tests after http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16360786.
a new diagnosis of breast cancer: further evidence of their limited
indications. Ann Oncol 2005;16:263-266. Available at: 115. Fisher B, Anderson S, Bryant J, et al. Twenty-year follow-up of a
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15668281. randomized trial comparing total mastectomy, lumpectomy, and
lumpectomy plus irradiation for the treatment of invasive breast cancer.
108. Brothers JM, Kidwell KM, Brown RK, Henry NL. Incidental radiologic N Engl J Med 2002;347:1233-1241. Available at:
findings at breast cancer diagnosis and likelihood of disease recurrence. http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa022152.
Breast Cancer Res Treat 2016;155:395-403. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26797222. 116. Veronesi U, Cascinelli N, Mariani L, et al. Twenty-year follow-up of
a randomized study comparing breast-conserving surgery with radical
109. Kumar R, Chauhan A, Zhuang H, et al. Clinicopathologic factors mastectomy for early breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2002;347:1227-1232.
associated with false negative FDG-PET in primary breast cancer. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12393819.
Breast Cancer Res Treat 2006;98:267-274. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16555126. 117. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative G, Darby S, McGale P,
et al. Effect of radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery on 10-year
110. Podoloff DA, Advani RH, Allred C, et al. NCCN task force report: recurrence and 15-year breast cancer death: meta-analysis of individual
positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) patient data for 10,801 women in 17 randomised trials. Lancet
scanning in cancer. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2007;5 Suppl 1:1-1. 2011;378:1707-1716. Available at:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17509259. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22019144.
111. Rosen EL, Eubank WB, Mankoff DA. FDG PET, PET/CT, and 118. Fourquet A, Campana F, Zafrani B, et al. Prognostic factors of
breast cancer imaging. Radiographics 2007;27 Suppl 1:S215-229. breast recurrence in the conservative management of early breast
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18180228. cancer: a 25-year follow-up. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1989;17:719-
725. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2777661.
112. Wahl RL, Siegel BA, Coleman RE, Gatsonis CG. Prospective
multicenter study of axillary nodal staging by positron emission 119. Komoike Y, Akiyama F, Iino Y, et al. Ipsilateral breast tumor
tomography in breast cancer: a report of the staging breast cancer with recurrence (IBTR) after breast-conserving treatment for early breast
PET Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:277-285. Available at: cancer: risk factors and impact on distant metastases. Cancer
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14722036.
MS-94
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
2006;106:35-41. Available at: 127. Hartmann-Johnsen OJ, Karesen R, Schlichting E, Nygard JF.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16333848. Survival is better after breast conserving therapy than mastectomy for
early stage breast cancer: A registry-based follow-up study of Norwegian
120. Zhou P, Gautam S, Recht A. Factors affecting outcome for young women Primary operated between 1998 and 2008. Ann Surg Oncol
women with early stage invasive breast cancer treated with breast- 2015;22:3836-3845. Available at:
conserving therapy. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2007;101:51-57. Available http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25743325.
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16821084.
128. Chatterjee A, Pyfer B, Czerniecki B, et al. Early postoperative
121. Golshan M, Miron A, Nixon AJ, et al. The prevalence of germline outcomes in lumpectomy versus simple mastectomy. J Surg Res
BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in young women with breast cancer 2015;198:143-148. Available at:
undergoing breast-conservation therapy. Am J Surg 2006;192:58-62.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16769276. 129. Recht A. Contralateral prophylactic mastectomy: caveat emptor. J
Clin Oncol 2009;27:1347-1349. Available at:
122. Kroman N, Holtveg H, Wohlfahrt J, et al. Effect of breast-conserving http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19224834.
therapy versus radical mastectomy on prognosis for young women with
breast carcinoma. Cancer 2004;100:688-693. Available at: 130. Bedrosian I, Hu CY, Chang GJ. Population-based study of
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14770422. contralateral prophylactic mastectomy and survival outcomes of breast
cancer patients. J Natl Cancer Inst 2010;102:401-409. Available at:
123. Blichert-Toft M, Nielsen M, During M, et al. Long-term results of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20185801.
breast conserving surgery vs. mastectomy for early stage invasive breast
cancer: 20-year follow-up of the Danish randomized DBCG-82TM 131. Jatoi I, Parsons HM. Contralateral prophylactic mastectomy and its
protocol. Acta Oncol 2008;47:672-681. Available at: association with reduced mortality: evidence for selection bias. Breast
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18465335. Cancer Res Treat 2014;148:389-396. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25301088.
124. Litiere S, Werutsky G, Fentiman IS, et al. Breast conserving therapy
versus mastectomy for stage I-II breast cancer: 20 year follow-up of the 132. Portschy PR, Kuntz KM, Tuttle TM. Survival outcomes after
EORTC 10801 phase 3 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:412-419. contralateral prophylactic mastectomy: a decision analysis. J Natl Cancer
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22373563. Inst 2014;106. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25031308.
125. Agarwal S, Pappas L, Neumayer L, et al. Effect of breast
conservation therapy vs mastectomy on disease-specific survival for 133. Fayanju OM, Stoll CR, Fowler S, et al. Contralateral prophylactic
early-stage breast cancer. JAMA Surg 2014;149:267-274. Available at: mastectomy after unilateral breast cancer: a systematic review and
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24429935. meta-analysis. Ann Surg 2014;260:1000-1010. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24950272.
126. Hwang ES, Lichtensztajn DY, Gomez SL, et al. Survival after
lumpectomy and mastectomy for early stage invasive breast cancer: the 134. Moran MS, Schnitt SJ, Giuliano AE, et al. Society of Surgical
effect of age and hormone receptor status. Cancer 2013;119:1402-1411. Oncology-American Society for Radiation Oncology consensus guideline
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23359049. on margins for breast-conserving surgery with whole-breast irradiation in
MS-95
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
stages I and II invasive breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:1507-1515. 2007;25:3657-3663. Available at:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24516019. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17485711.
135. Axelsson CK, Mouridsen HT, Zedeler K. Axillary dissection of level I 141. Giuliano AE, Hawes D, Ballman KV, et al. Association of occult
and II lymph nodes is important in breast cancer classification. The metastases in sentinel lymph nodes and bone marrow with survival
Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group (DBCG). Eur J Cancer among women with early-stage invasive breast cancer. JAMA
1992;28A:1415-1418. Available at: 2011;306:385-393. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1515262. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21791687.
136. Kiricuta CI, Tausch J. A mathematical model of axillary lymph node 142. Veronesi U, Paganelli G, Viale G, et al. A randomized comparison
involvement based on 1446 complete axillary dissections in patients with of sentinel-node biopsy with routine axillary dissection in breast cancer.
breast carcinoma. Cancer 1992;69:2496-2501. Available at: N Engl J Med 2003;349:546-553. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1568171. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12904519.
137. Bland KI, Scott-Conner CE, Menck H, Winchester DP. Axillary 143. Veronesi U, Paganelli G, Viale G, et al. Sentinel-lymph-node biopsy
dissection in breast-conserving surgery for stage I and II breast cancer: a as a staging procedure in breast cancer: update of a randomised
National Cancer Data Base study of patterns of omission and controlled study. Lancet Oncol 2006;7:983-990. Available at:
implications for survival. J Am Coll Surg 1999;188:586-595; discussion https://doi.org/10.1016/S1470-2045(06)70947-0.
595-586. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10359351.
144. Krag DN, Julian TB, Harlow SP, et al. NSABP-32: Phase III,
138. Deutsch M, Land S, Begovic M, Sharif S. The incidence of arm randomized trial comparing axillary resection with sentinal lymph node
edema in women with breast cancer randomized on the National Surgical dissection: a description of the trial. Ann Surg Oncol 2004;11:208S-
Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project study B-04 to radical mastectomy 210S. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15023753.
versus total mastectomy and radiotherapy versus total mastectomy
alone. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;70:1020-1024. Available at: 145. Land SR, Kopec JA, Julian TB, et al. Patient-reported outcomes in
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18029105. sentinel node-negative adjuvant breast cancer patients receiving
sentinel-node biopsy or axillary dissection: National Surgical Adjuvant
139. Fleissig A, Fallowfield LJ, Langridge CI, et al. Post-operative arm Breast and Bowel Project phase III protocol B-32. J Clin Oncol
morbidity and quality of life. Results of the ALMANAC randomised trial 2010;28:3929-3936. Available at:
comparing sentinel node biopsy with standard axillary treatment in the https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20679600.
management of patients with early breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res
Treat 2006;95:279-293. Available at: 146. Ashikaga T, Krag DN, Land SR, et al. Morbidity results from the
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16163445. NSABP B-32 trial comparing sentinel lymph node dissection versus
axillary dissection. J Surg Oncol 2010;102:111-118. Available at:
140. Lucci A, McCall LM, Beitsch PD, et al. Surgical complications https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20648579
associated with sentinel lymph node dissection (SLND) plus axillary
lymph node dissection compared with SLND alone in the American
College of Surgeons Oncology Group Trial Z0011. J Clin Oncol
MS-96
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
147. Mansel RE, Fallowfield L, Kissin M, et al. Randomized multicenter (IBCSG 23-01): a phase 3 randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol
trial of sentinel node biopsy versus standard axillary treatment in 2013;14:297-305. Available at:
operable breast cancer: the ALMANAC Trial. J Natl Cancer Inst https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23491275.
2006;98:599-609. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16670385. 154. Donker M, van Tienhoven G, Straver ME, et al. Radiotherapy or
surgery of the axilla after a positive sentinel node in breast cancer
148. Gill G, Surgeons STGotRACo, Centre NCT. Sentinel-lymph-node- (EORTC 10981-22023 AMAROS): a randomised, multicentre, open-
based management or routine axillary clearance? One-year outcomes of label, phase 3 non-inferiority trial. Lancet Oncol 2014;15:1303-1310.
sentinel node biopsy versus axillary clearance (SNAC): a randomized Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25439688.
controlled surgical trial. Ann Surg Oncol 2009;16:266-275. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19050973. 155. Rutgers E, Donker M, Poncet C, et al. Abstract GS4-01:
Radiotherapy or surgery of the axilla after a positive sentinel node in
149. Husted Madsen A, Haugaard K, Soerensen J, et al. Arm morbidity breast cancer patients: 10 year follow up results of the EORTC AMAROS
following sentinel lymph node biopsy or axillary lymph node dissection: a trial (EORTC 10981/22023). Cancer Research 2019;79:GS4-01.
study from the Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group. Breast Available at:
2008;17:138-147. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17928226. 156. Savolt A, Peley G, Polgar C, et al. Eight-year follow up result of the
OTOASOR trial: The Optimal Treatment Of the Axilla - Surgery Or
150. Giuliano AE, McCall L, Beitsch P, et al. Locoregional recurrence Radiotherapy after positive sentinel lymph node biopsy in early-stage
after sentinel lymph node dissection with or without axillary dissection in breast cancer: A randomized, single centre, phase III, non-inferiority trial.
patients with sentinel lymph node metastases: the American College of Eur J Surg Oncol 2017;43:672-679. Available at:
Surgeons Oncology Group Z0011 randomized trial. Ann Surg https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28139362.
2010;252:426-432; discussion 432-423. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20739842. 157. Kuehn T, Bauerfeind I, Fehm T, et al. Sentinel-lymph-node biopsy in
patients with breast cancer before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy
151. Giuliano AE, Hunt KK, Ballman KV, et al. Axillary dissection vs no (SENTINA): a prospective, multicentre cohort study. Lancet Oncol
axillary dissection in women with invasive breast cancer and sentinel 2013;14:609-618. Available at:
node metastasis: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2011;305:569-575. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23683750.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21304082.
158. Boughey JC, Suman VJ, Mittendorf EA, et al. Sentinel lymph node
152. Giuliano AE, Ballman K, McCall L, et al. Locoregional recurrence surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with node-positive
after sentinel lymph node dissection with or without axillary dissection in breast cancer: the ACOSOG Z1071 (Alliance) clinical trial. Jama
patients with sentinel lymph node metastases: Long-term follow-up from 2013;310:1455-1461. Available at:
the American College of Surgeons Oncology Group (Alliance) ACOSOG
Z0011 randomized trial. Ann Surg 2016;264:413-420. Available at: 159. Boileau JF, Poirier B, Basik M, et al. Sentinel node biopsy after
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27513155. neoadjuvant chemotherapy in biopsy-proven node-positive breast
cancer: the SN FNAC study. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:258-264. Available at:
153. Galimberti V, Cole BF, Zurrida S, et al. Axillary dissection versus no https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25452445.
axillary dissection in patients with sentinel-node micrometastases
MS-97
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
160. Boughey JC, Ballman KV, Le-Petross HT, et al. Identification and 167. Pignol JP, Olivotto I, Rakovitch E, et al. A multicenter randomized
resection of clipped node decreases the false-negative rate of sentinel trial of breast intensity-modulated radiation therapy to reduce acute
lymph node surgery in patients presenting with node-positive breast radiation dermatitis. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:2085-2092. Available at:
bancer (T0-T4, N1-N2) who receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy: results http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18285602.
from ACOSOG Z1071 (Alliance). Ann Surg 2016;263:802-807. Available
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26649589. 168. Mukesh MB, Barnett GC, Wilkinson JS, et al. Randomized
controlled trial of intensity-modulated radiotherapy for early breast
161. Caudle AS, Yang WT, Krishnamurthy S, et al. Improved axillary cancer: 5-year results confirm superior overall cosmesis. J Clin Oncol
evaluation following neoadjuvant therapy for patients with node-positive 2013;31:4488-4495. Available at:
breast cancer using selective evaluation of clipped nodes: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24043742.
Implementation of targeted axillary dissection. J Clin Oncol
2016;34:1072-1078. Available at: 169. Group ST, Bentzen SM, Agrawal RK, et al. The UK Standardisation
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26811528. of Breast Radiotherapy (START) Trial B of radiotherapy
hypofractionation for treatment of early breast cancer: a randomised trial.
162. American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Cancer staging Lancet 2008;371:1098-1107. Available at:
manual, Seventh Edition (2010) published by Springer http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18355913.
Science+Business Media, LLC
170. Group ST, Bentzen SM, Agrawal RK, et al. The UK Standardisation
163. Rocha RD, Girardi AR, Pinto RR, de Freitas VA. Axillary ultrasound of Breast Radiotherapy (START) Trial A of radiotherapy
and fine-needle aspiration in preoperative staging of axillary lymph nodes hypofractionation for treatment of early breast cancer: a randomised trial.
in patients with invasive breast cancer. Radiol Bras 2015;48:345-352. Lancet Oncol 2008;9:331-341. Available at:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26811550. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18356109.
164. Mulliez T, Veldeman L, van Greveling A, et al. Hypofractionated 171. Owen JR, Ashton A, Bliss JM, et al. Effect of radiotherapy fraction
whole breast irradiation for patients with large breasts: a randomized trial size on tumour control in patients with early-stage breast cancer after
comparing prone and supine positions. Radiother Oncol 2013;108:203- local tumour excision: long-term results of a randomised trial. Lancet
208. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24044803. Oncol 2006;7:467-471. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16750496.
165. Antonini N, Jones H, Horiot JC, et al. Effect of age and radiation
dose on local control after breast conserving treatment: EORTC trial 172. Whelan TJ, Pignol JP, Levine MN, et al. Long-term results of
22881-10882. Radiother Oncol 2007;82:265-271. Available at: hypofractionated radiation therapy for breast cancer. N Engl J Med
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17126434. 2010;362:513-520. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20147717.
166. Bartelink H, Horiot JC, Poortmans P, et al. Recurrence rates after
treatment of breast cancer with standard radiotherapy with or without 173. Haviland JS, Owen JR, Dewar JA, et al. The UK Standardisation of
additional radiation. N Engl J Med 2001;345:1378-1387. Available at: Breast Radiotherapy (START) trials of radiotherapy hypofractionation for
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11794170. treatment of early breast cancer: 10-year follow-up results of two
randomised controlled trials. Lancet Oncol 2013;14:1086-1094. Available
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24055415.
MS-98
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
174. Offersen BV, Alsner J, Nielsen HM, et al. Hypofractionated versus conserving therapy. Am J Clin Oncol 2001;24:26-32. Available at:
standard fractionated radiotherapy in patients with early breast cancer or https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11232945.
ductal carcinoma in situ in a randomized phase III trial: The DBCG
HYPO trial. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:3615-3625. Available at: 181. Whelan TJ, Olivotto IA, Parulekar WR, et al. Regional nodal
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32910709. irradiation in early-stage breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2015;373:307-316.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26200977.
175. Brunt AM, Haviland JS, Sydenham M, et al. Ten-year results of
FAST: A randomized controlled trial of 5-fraction whole-breast 182. Poortmans PM, Collette S, Kirkove C, et al. Internal mammary and
radiotherapy for early breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2020;38:3261-3272. medial supraclavicular irradiation in breast cancer. N Engl J Med
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32663119. 2015;373:317-327. Available at:
http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1415369.
176. Murray Brunt A, Haviland JS, Wheatley DA, et al. Hypofractionated
breast radiotherapy for 1 week versus 3 weeks (FAST-Forward): 5-year 183. Poortmans PM, Weltens C, Fortpied C, et al. Internal mammary and
efficacy and late normal tissue effects results from a multicentre, non- medial supraclavicular lymph node chain irradiation in stage I-III breast
inferiority, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2020;395:1613-1626. cancer (EORTC 22922/10925): 15-year results of a randomised, phase 3
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32580883. trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:1602-1610. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33152277.
177. Vrieling C, Collette L, Fourquet A, et al. The influence of patient,
tumor and treatment factors on the cosmetic results after breast- 184. Gentile MS, Usman AA, Neuschler EI, et al. Contouring guidelines
conserving therapy in the EORTC 'boost vs. no boost' trial. EORTC for the axillary lymph nodes for the delivery of radiation therapy in breast
Radiotherapy and Breast Cancer Cooperative Groups. Radiother Oncol cancer: Evaluation of the RTOG Breast Cancer Atlas. Int J Radiat Oncol
2000;55:219-232. Available at: Biol Phys 2015;93:257-265. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10869738. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26383674.
178. Jones HA, Antonini N, Hart AA, et al. Impact of pathological 185. Offersen BV, Boersma LJ, Kirkove C, et al. ESTRO consensus
characteristics on local relapse after breast-conserving therapy: a guideline on target volume delineation for elective radiation therapy of
subgroup analysis of the EORTC boost versus no boost trial. J Clin early stage breast cancer, version 1.1. Radiother Oncol 2016;118:205-
Oncol 2009;27:4939-4947. Available at: 208. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26791404.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19720914.
186. Coles CE, Griffin CL, Kirby AM, et al. Partial-breast radiotherapy
179. Vrieling C, van Werkhoven E, Maingon P, et al. Prognostic factors after breast conservation surgery for patients with early breast cancer
for local control in breast cancer after long-term follow-up in the EORTC (UK IMPORT LOW trial): 5-year results from a multicentre, randomised,
boost vs no boost trial: A randomized clinical trial. JAMA Oncol controlled, phase 3, non-inferiority trial. Lancet 2017;390:1048-1060.
2017;3:42-48. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28779963.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27607734.
187. Meattini I, Marrazzo L, Saieva C, et al. Accelerated partial-breast
180. Frazier RC, Kestin LL, Kini V, et al. Impact of boost technique on irradiation compared with whole-breast irradiation for early breast cancer:
outcome in early-stage breast cancer patients treated with breast- Long-term results of the randomized phase III APBI-IMRT-Florence trial.
MS-99
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
J Clin Oncol 2020;38:4175-4183. Available at: 194. Hughes KS, Schnaper LA, Berry D, et al. Lumpectomy plus
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32840419. tamoxifen with or without irradiation in women 70 years of age or older
with early breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;351:971-977. Available at:
188. Polgar C, Major T, Takacsi-Nagy Z, Fodor J. Breast-conserving http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15342805.
surgery followed by partial or whole breast irradiation: Twenty-year
results of a phase 3 clinical study. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 195. Hughes KS, Schnaper LA, Bellon JR, et al. Lumpectomy plus
2021;109:998-1006. Available at: tamoxifen with or without irradiation in women age 70 years or older with
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33186620. early breast cancer: long-term follow-up of CALGB 9343. J Clin Oncol
2013;31:2382-2387. Available at:
189. Bhattacharya IS, Haviland JS, Kirby AM, et al. Patient-reported http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23690420.
outcomes over 5 years after whole- or partial-breast radiotherapy:
Longitudinal analysis of the import low (cruk/06/003) phase III 196. Fyles AW, McCready DR, Manchul LA, et al. Tamoxifen with or
randomized controlled trial. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:305-317. Available at: without breast irradiation in women 50 years of age or older with early
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30532984. breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;351:963-970. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15342804.
190. Olivotto IA, Whelan TJ, Parpia S, et al. Interim cosmetic and toxicity
results from RAPID: a randomized trial of accelerated partial breast 197. Kunkler IH, Williams LJ, Jack WJ, et al. Breast-conserving surgery
irradiation using three-dimensional conformal external beam radiation with or without irradiation in women aged 65 years or older with early
therapy. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:4038-4045. Available at: breast cancer (PRIME II): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23835717. 2015;16:266-273. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25637340.
191. Correa C, Harris EE, Leonardi MC, et al. Accelerated partial breast
irradiation: Executive summary for the update of an ASTRO evidence- 198. Hellman S. Stopping metastases at their source. N Engl J Med
based consensus statement. Pract Radiat Oncol 2017;7:73-79. Available 1997;337:996-997. Available at:
at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.prro.2016.09.007. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9309106.
192. Kim YB, Byun HK, Kim DY, et al. Effect of elective internal 199. Overgaard M, Hansen PS, Overgaard J, et al. Postoperative
mammary node irradiation on disease-free survival in women with node- radiotherapy in high-risk premenopausal women with breast cancer who
positive breast cancer: A randomized phase 3 clinical trial. JAMA Oncol receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative
2022;8:96-105. Available at: Group 82b Trial. N Engl J Med 1997;337:949-955. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34695841. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9395428.
193. Thorsen LBJ, Overgaard J, Matthiessen LW, et al. Internal 200. Overgaard M, Jensen MB, Overgaard J, et al. Postoperative
mammary node irradiation in patients with node-positive early breast radiotherapy in high-risk postmenopausal breast-cancer patients given
cancer: Fifteen-year results from the Danish Breast Cancer Group adjuvant tamoxifen: Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group DBCG
internal mammary node study. J Clin Oncol 2022:JCO2200044. Available 82c randomised trial. Lancet 1999;353:1641-1648. Available at:
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35394824. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10335782.
MS-100
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
201. Ragaz J, Olivotto IA, Spinelli JJ, et al. Locoregional radiation advanced breast cancer who achieve a pathologic complete response to
therapy in patients with high-risk breast cancer receiving adjuvant neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2007;68:1004-
chemotherapy: 20-year results of the British Columbia randomized trial. J 1009. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17418973.
Natl Cancer Inst 2005;97:116-126. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15657341. 208. Swisher SK, Vila J, Tucker SL, et al. Locoregional control according
to breast cancer subtype and response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in
202. Recht A, Edge SB, Solin LJ, et al. Postmastectomy radiotherapy: breast cancer patients undergoing breast-conserving therapy. Ann Surg
clinical practice guidelines of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. Oncol 2016;23:749-756. Available at:
J Clin Oncol 2001;19:1539-1569. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26511263.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11230499.
209. Bellon JR, Come SE, Gelman RS, et al. Sequencing of
203. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative G, McGale P, Taylor C, chemotherapy and radiation therapy in early-stage breast cancer:
et al. Effect of radiotherapy after mastectomy and axillary surgery on 10- updated results of a prospective randomized trial. J Clin Oncol
year recurrence and 20-year breast cancer mortality: meta-analysis of 2005;23:1934-1940. Available at:
individual patient data for 8135 women in 22 randomised trials. Lancet http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15774786.
2014;383:2127-2135. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24656685. 210. Recht A, Come SE, Henderson IC, et al. The sequencing of
chemotherapy and radiation therapy after conservative surgery for early-
204. Nielsen HM, Overgaard M, Grau C, et al. Study of failure pattern stage breast cancer. N Engl J Med 1996;334:1356-1361. Available at:
among high-risk breast cancer patients with or without postmastectomy http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8614420.
radiotherapy in addition to adjuvant systemic therapy: long-term results
from the Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group DBCG 82 b and c 211. Pierce LJ, Hutchins LF, Green SR, et al. Sequencing of tamoxifen
randomized studies. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2268-2275. Available at: and radiotherapy after breast-conserving surgery in early-stage breast
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16618947. cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:24-29. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15545669.
205. Abdel-Wahab M, Wolfson A, Raub W, et al. The importance of
postoperative radiation therapy in multimodality management of locally 212. Harris EE, Christensen VJ, Hwang WT, et al. Impact of concurrent
advanced breast cancer: a phase II trial of neoadjuvant MVAC, surgery, versus sequential tamoxifen with radiation therapy in early-stage breast
and radiation. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1998;40:875-880. Available cancer patients undergoing breast conservation treatment. J Clin Oncol
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9531373. 2005;23:11-16. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15545665.
206. Huang EH, Tucker SL, Strom EA, et al. Postmastectomy radiation
improves local-regional control and survival for selected patients with 213. Ahn PH, Vu HT, Lannin D, et al. Sequence of radiotherapy with
locally advanced breast cancer treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy tamoxifen in conservatively managed breast cancer does not affect local
and mastectomy. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:4691-4699. Available at: relapse rates. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:17-23. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15570071. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15545666.
207. McGuire SE, Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Huang EH, et al.
Postmastectomy radiation improves the outcome of patients with locally
MS-101
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
214. Li YF, Chang L, Li WH, et al. Radiotherapy concurrent versus 222. Woerdeman LA, Hage JJ, Hofland MM, Rutgers EJ. A prospective
sequential with endocrine therapy in breast cancer: A meta-analysis. assessment of surgical risk factors in 400 cases of skin-sparing
Breast 2016;27:93-98. Available at: mastectomy and immediate breast reconstruction with implants to
establish selection criteria. Plast Reconstr Surg 2007;119:455-463.
215. Masuda N, Lee SJ, Ohtani S, et al. Adjuvant capecitabine for breast Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17230076.
cancer after preoperative chemotherapy. N Engl J Med 2017;376:2147-
2159. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28564564. 223. Antony AK, McCarthy CM, Cordeiro PG, et al. Acellular human
dermis implantation in 153 immediate two-stage tissue expander breast
216. Tutt ANJ, Garber JE, Kaufman B, et al. Adjuvant olaparib for reconstructions: determining the incidence and significant predictors of
patients with BRCA1- or BRCA2-mutated breast cancer. N Engl J Med complications. Plast Reconstr Surg 2010;125:1606-1614. Available at:
2021. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34081848. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20517083.
217. Mignot F, Ajgal Z, Xu H, et al. Concurrent administration of anti- 224. Ahmed S, Snelling A, Bains M, Whitworth IH. Breast reconstruction.
HER2 therapy and radiotherapy: Systematic review. Radiother Oncol BMJ 2005;330:943-948. Available at:
2017;124:190-199. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15845976.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28751231.
225. Edlich RF, Winters KL, Faulkner BC, et al. Advances in breast
218. McLaughlin JM, Anderson RT, Ferketich AK, et al. Effect on survival reconstruction after mastectomy. J Long Term Eff Med Implants
of longer intervals between confirmed diagnosis and treatment initiation 2005;15:197-207. Available at:
among low-income women with breast cancer. J Clin Oncol http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15777171.
2012;30:4493-4500. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23169521. 226. Pennington DG. Breast reconstruction after mastectomy: current
state of the art. ANZ J Surg 2005;75:454-458. Available at:
219. Liu AS, Kao HK, Reish RG, et al. Postoperative complications in http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15943736.
prosthesis-based breast reconstruction using acellular dermal matrix.
Plast Reconstr Surg 2011;127:1755-1762. Available at: 227. Chang DW. Breast Reconstruction with Microvascular MS-TRAM
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21228744. and DIEP Flaps. Arch Plast Surg 2012;39:3-10. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22783484.
220. McCarthy CM, Mehrara BJ, Riedel E, et al. Predicting complications
following expander/implant breast reconstruction: an outcomes analysis 228. Kronowitz SJ, Robb GL. Radiation therapy and breast
based on preoperative clinical risk. Plast Reconstr Surg 2008;121:1886- reconstruction: a critical review of the literature. Plast Reconstr Surg
1892. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18520873. 2009;124:395-408. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19644254.
221. Cowen D, Gross E, Rouannet P, et al. Immediate post-mastectomy
breast reconstruction followed by radiotherapy: risk factors for 229. Tran NV, Chang DW, Gupta A, et al. Comparison of immediate and
complications. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2010;121:627-634. Available at: delayed free TRAM flap breast reconstruction in patients receiving
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20424909. postmastectomy radiation therapy. Plast Reconstr Surg 2001;108:78-82.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11420508.
MS-102
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
230. Mehta VK, Goffinet D. Postmastectomy radiation therapy after 238. Gerber B, Krause A, Dieterich M, et al. The oncological safety of
TRAM flap breast reconstruction. Breast J 2004;10:118-122. Available skin sparing mastectomy with conservation of the nipple-areola complex
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15009038. and autologous reconstruction: an extended follow-up study. Ann Surg
2009;249:461-468. Available at:
231. Berry T, Brooks S, Sydow N, et al. Complication rates of radiation http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19247035.
on tissue expander and autologous tissue breast reconstruction. Ann
Surg Oncol 2010;17 Suppl 3:202-210. Available at: 239. Mallon P, Feron JG, Couturaud B, et al. The role of nipple-sparing
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20853034. mastectomy in breast cancer: a comprehensive review of the literature.
Plast Reconstr Surg 2013;131:969-984. Available at:
232. Francis SH, Ruberg RL, Stevenson KB, et al. Independent risk http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23629079.
factors for infection in tissue expander breast reconstruction. Plast
Reconstr Surg 2009;124:1790-1796. Available at: 240. Piper M, Peled AW, Foster RD, et al. Total skin-sparing
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19952635. mastectomy: A aystematic review of oncologic outcomes and
postoperative complications. Ann Plast Surg 2013. Available at:
233. Colwell AS, Damjanovic B, Zahedi B, et al. Retrospective review of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23486127.
331 consecutive immediate single-stage implant reconstructions with
acellular dermal matrix: indications, complications, trends, and costs. 241. Toth BA, Forley BG, Calabria R. Retrospective study of the skin-
Plast Reconstr Surg 2011;128:1170-1178. Available at: sparing mastectomy in breast reconstruction. Plast Reconstr Surg
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22094736. 1999;104:77-84. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10597677.
234. Garcia-Etienne CA, Cody Iii HS, Disa JJ, et al. Nipple-sparing
mastectomy: initial experience at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 242. Carlson GW, Styblo TM, Lyles RH, et al. The use of skin sparing
Center and a comprehensive review of literature. Breast J 2009;15:440- mastectomy in the treatment of breast cancer: The Emory experience.
449. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19496781. Surg Oncol 2003;12:265-269. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14998566.
235. Petit JY, Veronesi U, Orecchia R, et al. Nipple sparing mastectomy
with nipple areola intraoperative radiotherapy: one thousand and one 243. Downes KJ, Glatt BS, Kanchwala SK, et al. Skin-sparing
cases of a five years experience at the European institute of oncology of mastectomy and immediate reconstruction is an acceptable treatment
Milan (EIO). Breast Cancer Res Treat 2009;117:333-338. Available at: option for patients with high-risk breast carcinoma. Cancer
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19152026. 2005;103:906-913. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15651068.
236. Yueh JH, Houlihan MJ, Slavin SA, et al. Nipple-sparing
mastectomy: evaluation of patient satisfaction, aesthetic results, and 244. Foster RD, Esserman LJ, Anthony JP, et al. Skin-sparing
sensation. Ann Plast Surg 2009;62:586-590. Available at: mastectomy and immediate breast reconstruction: a prospective cohort
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19387167. study for the treatment of advanced stages of breast carcinoma. Ann
Surg Oncol 2002;9:462-466. Available at:
237. Chung AP, Sacchini V. Nipple-sparing mastectomy: Where are we http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12052757.
now? Surg Oncol 2008;17:261-266. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18456492.
MS-103
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
245. Medina-Franco H, Vasconez LO, Fix RJ, et al. Factors associated Project Protocols B-18 and B-27. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:778-785.
with local recurrence after skin-sparing mastectomy and immediate Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18258986.
breast reconstruction for invasive breast cancer. Ann Surg
2002;235:814-819. Available at: 253. Gralow JR, Burstein HJ, Wood W, et al. Preoperative therapy in
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12035037. invasive breast cancer: pathologic assessment and systemic therapy
issues in operable disease. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:814-819. Available at:
246. Newman LA, Kuerer HM, Hunt KK, et al. Presentation, treatment, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18258991.
and outcome of local recurrence afterskin-sparing mastectomy and
immediate breast reconstruction. Ann Surg Oncol 1998;5:620-626. 254. Killelea BK, Yang VQ, Mougalian S, et al. Neoadjuvant
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9831111. chemotherapy for breast cancer increases the rate of breast
conservation: results from the National Cancer Database. J Am Coll Surg
247. Clough KB, Kaufman GJ, Nos C, et al. Improving breast cancer 2015;220:1063-1069. Available at:
surgery: a classification and quadrant per quadrant atlas for oncoplastic http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25868410.
surgery. Ann Surg Oncol 2010;17:1375-1391. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20140531. 255. Liedtke C, Mazouni C, Hess KR, et al. Response to neoadjuvant
therapy and long-term survival in patients with triple-negative breast
248. Anderson BO, Masetti R, Silverstein MJ. Oncoplastic approaches to cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:1275-1281. Available at:
partial mastectomy: an overview of volume-displacement techniques. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18250347.
Lancet Oncol 2005;6:145-157. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15737831. 256. Cortazar P, Zhang L, Untch M, et al. Pathological complete
response and long-term clinical benefit in breast cancer: the CTNeoBC
249. Huemer GM, Schrenk P, Moser F, et al. Oncoplastic techniques pooled analysis. Lancet 2014;384:164-172. Available at:
allow breast-conserving treatment in centrally located breast cancers. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24529560.
Plast Reconstr Surg 2007;120:390-398. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17632339. 257. von Minckwitz G, Untch M, Blohmer JU, et al. Definition and impact
of pathologic complete response on prognosis after neoadjuvant
250. Kaur N, Petit J-Y, Rietjens M, et al. Comparative study of surgical chemotherapy in various intrinsic breast cancer subtypes. J Clin Oncol
margins in oncoplastic surgery and quadrantectomy in breast cancer. 2012;30:1796-1804. Available at:
Ann Surg Oncol 2005;12:539-545. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22508812.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15889210.
258. Iwata H, Masuda N, Yamamoto Y, et al. Validation of the 21-gene
251. Mauri D, Pavlidis N, Ioannidis JP. Neoadjuvant versus adjuvant test as a predictor of clinical response to neoadjuvant hormonal therapy
systemic treatment in breast cancer: a meta-analysis. J Natl Cancer Inst for ER+, HER2-negative breast cancer: the TransNEOS study. Breast
2005;97:188-194. Available at: Cancer Res Treat 2019;173:123-133. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15687361. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30242578.
252. Rastogi P, Anderson SJ, Bear HD, et al. Preoperative 259. Pease AM, Riba LA, Gruner RA, et al. Oncotype DX((R))
chemotherapy: updates of National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Recurrence Score as a Predictor of Response to Neoadjuvant
MS-104
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Chemotherapy. Ann Surg Oncol 2019;26:366-371. Available at: 266. Torrisi R, Bagnardi V, Rotmensz N, et al. Letrozole plus GnRH
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30542840. analogue as preoperative and adjuvant therapy in premenopausal
women with ER positive locally advanced breast cancer. Breast Cancer
260. Cataliotti L, Buzdar AU, Noguchi S, et al. Comparison of Res Treat 2011;126:431-441. Available at:
anastrozole versus tamoxifen as preoperative therapy in http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21221766.
postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer:
the Pre-Operative "Arimidex" Compared to Tamoxifen (PROACT) trial. 267. Fontein DB, Charehbili A, Nortier JW, et al. Efficacy of six month
Cancer 2006;106:2095-2103. Available at: neoadjuvant endocrine therapy in postmenopausal, hormone receptor-
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16598749. positive breast cancer patients--a phase II trial. Eur J Cancer
2014;50:2190-2200. Available at:
261. Smith IE, Dowsett M, Ebbs SR, et al. Neoadjuvant treatment of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24970786.
postmenopausal breast cancer with anastrozole, tamoxifen, or both in
combination: the Immediate Preoperative Anastrozole, Tamoxifen, or 268. Hunt KK, Suman VJ, Wingate HF, et al. Local-regional recurrence
Combined with Tamoxifen (IMPACT) multicenter double-blind after neoadjuvant endocrine therapy: Data from ACOSOG Z1031
randomized trial. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:5108-5116. Available at: (Alliance), a randomized phase 2 neoadjuvant comparison between
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15998903. letrozole, anastrozole, and exemestane for postmenopausal women with
estrogen receptor-positive clinical stage 2 or 3 breast cancer. Ann Surg
262. Eiermann W, Paepke S, Appfelstaedt J, et al. Preoperative Oncol 2023;30:2111-2118. Available at:
treatment of postmenopausal breast cancer patients with letrozole: A https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36653664.
randomized double-blind multicenter study. Ann Oncol 2001;12:1527-
1532. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11822750. 269. Petrelli F, Borgonovo K, Cabiddu M, et al. Neoadjuvant
chemotherapy and concomitant trastuzumab in breast cancer: a pooled
263. Ellis MJ, Ma C. Letrozole in the neoadjuvant setting: the P024 trial. analysis of two randomized trials. Anticancer Drugs 2011;22:128-135.
Breast Cancer Res Treat 2007;105 Suppl 1:33-43. Available at: Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21218604.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17912634.
270. Schneeweiss A, Chia S, Hickish T, et al. Pertuzumab plus
264. Ellis MJ, Suman VJ, Hoog J, et al. Randomized phase II trastuzumab in combination with standard neoadjuvant anthracycline-
neoadjuvant comparison between letrozole, anastrozole, and containing and anthracycline-free chemotherapy regimens in patients
exemestane for postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-rich with HER2-positive early breast cancer: a randomized phase II cardiac
stage 2 to 3 breast cancer: clinical and biomarker outcomes and safety study (TRYPHAENA). Ann Oncol 2013;24:2278-2284. Available
predictive value of the baseline PAM50-based intrinsic subtype-- at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23704196.
ACOSOG Z1031. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2342-2349. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21555689. 271. Gianni L, Pienkowski T, Im Y-H, et al. Five-year analysis of the
phase II NeoSphere trial evaluating four cycles of neoadjuvant docetaxel
265. Masuda N, Sagara Y, Kinoshita T, et al. Neoadjuvant anastrozole (D) and/or trastuzumab (T) and/or pertuzumab (P). ASCO Meeting
versus tamoxifen in patients receiving goserelin for premenopausal Abstracts 2015;33:505. Available at:
breast cancer (STAGE): a double-blind, randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/33/15_suppl/505.
Oncol 2012;13:345-352. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22265697.
MS-105
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
272. Gianni L, Pienkowski T, Im YH, et al. 5-year analysis of neoadjuvant Res 2004;10:5670-5676. Available at:
pertuzumab and trastuzumab in patients with locally advanced, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15355892.
inflammatory, or early-stage HER2-positive breast cancer (NeoSphere):
a multicentre, open-label, phase 2 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol 279. Berry DA, Muss HB, Thor AD, et al. HER-2/neu and p53 expression
2016;17:791-800. Available at: versus tamoxifen resistance in estrogen receptor-positive, node-positive
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27179402. breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:3471-3479. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11032587.
273. Schmid P, Cortes J, Dent R, et al. Event-free survival with
pembrolizumab in early triple-negative breast cancer. N Engl J Med 280. De Laurentiis M, Arpino G, Massarelli E, et al. A meta-analysis on
2022;386:556-567. Available at: the interaction between HER-2 expression and response to endocrine
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35139274. treatment in advanced breast cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2005;11:4741-
4748. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16000569.
274. Schmid P, Cortés J, Dent RA, et al. Pembrolizumab or placebo plus
chemotherapy followed by pembrolizumab or placebo for early-stage 281. Eppenberger-Castori S, Kueng W, Benz C, et al. Prognostic and
TNBC: Updated EFS results from the phase III KEYNOTE-522 study predictive significance of ErbB-2 breast tumor levels measured by
(abstract). Annals of Oncology 2023;34:S1257. Available at: enzyme immunoassay. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:645-656. Available at:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2023.10.008. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11157014.
275. Yau C, Osdoit M, van der Noordaa M, et al. Residual cancer burden 282. Knoop AS, Bentzen SM, Nielsen MM, et al. Value of epidermal
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy and long-term survival outcomes in growth factor receptor, HER2, p53, and steroid receptors in predicting
breast cancer: a multicentre pooled analysis of 5161 patients. Lancet the efficacy of tamoxifen in high-risk postmenopausal breast cancer
Oncol 2022;23:149-160. Available at: patients. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:3376-3384. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34902335. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11454885.
276. Allred DC, Carlson RW, Berry DA, et al. NCCN Task Force Report: 283. Mass R. The role of HER-2 expression in predicting response to
Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor testing in breast cancer by therapy in breast cancer. Semin Oncol 2000;27:46-52. Available at:
immunohistochemistry. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2009;7 Suppl 6:S1-S21; http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11236028.
quiz S22-23. Available at:
284. Pegram MD, Pauletti G, Slamon DJ. HER-2/neu as a predictive
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19755043.
marker of response to breast cancer therapy. Breast Cancer Res Treat
277. Tamoxifen for early breast cancer: an overview of the randomised 1998;52:65-77. Available at:
trials. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group. Lancet http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10066073.
1998;351:1451-1467. Available at:
285. Piccart MJ, Di Leo A, Hamilton A. HER2. a 'predictive factor' ready
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9605801.
to use in the daily management of breast cancer patients? Eur J Cancer
278. Arpino G, Green SJ, Allred DC, et al. HER-2 amplification, HER-1 2000;36:1755-1761. Available at:
expression, and tamoxifen response in estrogen receptor-positive http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10974622.
metastatic breast cancer: a southwest oncology group study. Clin Cancer
MS-106
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
286. Paik S, Tang G, Shak S, et al. Gene expression and benefit of 6,953 women with early breast cancer [Abstract]. J Clin Oncol
chemotherapy in women with node-negative, estrogen receptor-positive 2013;31(Suppl):Abstract 5. Available at:
breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:3726-3734. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16720680. 293. Coombes RC, Kilburn LS, Snowdon CF, et al. Survival and safety of
exemestane versus tamoxifen after 2-3 years' tamoxifen treatment
287. Dowsett M, Allred C, Knox J, et al. Relationship between (Intergroup Exemestane Study): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet
quantitative estrogen and progesterone receptor expression and human 2007;369:559-570. Available at:
epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2) status with recurrence in the http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17307102.
Arimidex, Tamoxifen, Alone or in Combination trial. J Clin Oncol
2008;26:1059-1065. Available at: 294. Kaufmann M, Jonat W, Hilfrich J, et al. Improved overall survival in
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18227529. postmenopausal women with early breast cancer after anastrozole
initiated after treatment with tamoxifen compared with continued
288. Albain KS, Barlow WE, Ravdin PM, et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy tamoxifen: the ARNO 95 Study. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:2664-2670.
and timing of tamoxifen in postmenopausal patients with endocrine- Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17563395.
responsive, node-positive breast cancer: a phase 3, open-label,
randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2009;374:2055-2063. Available at: 295. Goss PE, Ingle JN, Martino S, et al. Randomized trial of letrozole
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20004966. following tamoxifen as extended adjuvant therapy in receptor-positive
breast cancer: updated findings from NCIC CTG MA.17. J Natl Cancer
289. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative G, Davies C, Godwin J, Inst 2005;97:1262-1271. Available at:
et al. Relevance of breast cancer hormone receptors and other factors to http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16145047.
the efficacy of adjuvant tamoxifen: patient-level meta-analysis of
randomised trials. Lancet 2011;378:771-784. Available at: 296. Baum M, Budzar AU, Cuzick J, et al. Anastrozole alone or in
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21802721. combination with tamoxifen versus tamoxifen alone for adjuvant
treatment of postmenopausal women with early breast cancer: first
290. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative G. Effects of results of the ATAC randomised trial. Lancet 2002;359:2131-2139.
chemotherapy and hormonal therapy for early breast cancer on Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12090977.
recurrence and 15-year survival: an overview of the randomised trials.
Lancet 2005;365:1687-1717. Available at: 297. Howell A, Cuzick J, Baum M, et al. Results of the ATAC (Arimidex,
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15894097. Tamoxifen, Alone or in Combination) trial after completion of 5 years'
adjuvant treatment for breast cancer. Lancet 2005;365:60-62. Available
291. Davies C, Pan H, Godwin J, et al. Long-term effects of continuing at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15639680.
adjuvant tamoxifen to 10 years versus stopping at 5 years after diagnosis
of oestrogen receptor-positive breast cancer: ATLAS, a randomised trial. 298. Forbes JF, Cuzick J, Buzdar A, et al. Effect of anastrozole and
Lancet 2013;381:805-816. Available at: tamoxifen as adjuvant treatment for early-stage breast cancer: 100-
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23219286. month analysis of the ATAC trial. Lancet Oncol 2008;9:45-53. Available
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18083636.
292. Gray R, Rea D, Handley K, et al. aTTom: Long-term effects of
continuing adjuvant tamoxifen to 10 years versus stopping at 5 years in 299. Duffy S, Jackson TL, Lansdown M, et al. The ATAC ('Arimidex',
Tamoxifen, Alone or in Combination) adjuvant breast cancer trial: first
MS-107
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
results of the endometrial sub-protocol following 2 years of treatment. 306. Rabaglio M, Sun Z, Price KN, et al. Bone fractures among
Hum Reprod 2006;21:545-553. Available at: postmenopausal patients with endocrine-responsive early breast cancer
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16210385. treated with 5 years of letrozole or tamoxifen in the BIG 1-98 trial. Ann
Oncol 2009;20:1489-1498. Available at:
300. Fallowfield L, Cella D, Cuzick J, et al. Quality of life of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19474112.
postmenopausal women in the Arimidex, Tamoxifen, Alone or in
Combination (ATAC) Adjuvant Breast Cancer Trial. J Clin Oncol 307. Mouridsen H, Giobbie-Hurder A, Goldhirsch A, et al. Letrozole
2004;22:4261-4271. Available at: therapy alone or in sequence with tamoxifen in women with breast
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15514369. cancer. N Engl J Med 2009;361:766-776. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19692688.
301. Eastell R, Adams JE, Coleman RE, et al. Effect of anastrozole on
bone mineral density: 5-year results from the anastrozole, tamoxifen, 308. Boccardo F, Rubagotti A, Puntoni M, et al. Switching to anastrozole
alone or in combination trial 18233230. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:1051-1057. versus continued tamoxifen treatment of early breast cancer: preliminary
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18309940. results of the Italian Tamoxifen Anastrozole Trial. J Clin Oncol
2005;23:5138-5147. Available at:
302. Dowsett M, Cuzick J, Howell A, Jackson I. Pharmacokinetics of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16009955.
anastrozole and tamoxifen alone, and in combination, during adjuvant
endocrine therapy for early breast cancer in postmenopausal women: a 309. Boccardo F, Rubagotti A, Guglielmini P, et al. Switching to
sub-protocol of the 'Arimidex and tamoxifen alone or in combination' anastrozole versus continued tamoxifen treatment of early breast cancer.
(ATAC) trial. Br J Cancer 2001;85:317-324. Available at: Updated results of the Italian tamoxifen anastrozole (ITA) trial. Ann
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11487258. Oncol 2006;17 Suppl 7:10-14. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16760270.
303. Buzdar AU, Guastalla JP, Nabholtz JM, et al. Impact of
chemotherapy regimens prior to endocrine therapy: Results from the 310. Coombes RC, Hall E, Gibson LJ, et al. A randomized trial of
ATAC (anastrozole and tamoxifen, alone or in combination) trial. Cancer exemestane after two to three years of tamoxifen therapy in
2006;107:472-480. Available at: postmenopausal women with primary breast cancer. N Engl J Med
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16804925. 2004;350:1081-1092. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15014181.
304. Thurlimann B, Keshaviah A, Coates AS, et al. A comparison of
letrozole and tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with early breast 311. Jakesz R, Jonat W, Gnant M, et al. Switching of postmenopausal
cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;353:2747-2757. Available at: women with endocrine-responsive early breast cancer to anastrozole
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16382061. after 2 years' adjuvant tamoxifen: combined results of ABCSG trial 8 and
ARNO 95 trial. Lancet 2005;366:455-462. Available at:
305. Mouridsen H, Keshaviah A, Coates AS, et al. Cardiovascular http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16084253.
adverse events during adjuvant endocrine therapy for early breast
cancer using letrozole or tamoxifen: safety analysis of BIG 1-98 trial. J 312. Jonat W, Gnant M, Boccardo F, et al. Effectiveness of switching
Clin Oncol 2007;25:5715-5722. Available at: from adjuvant tamoxifen to anastrozole in postmenopausal women with
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17998546. hormone-sensitive early-stage breast cancer: a meta-analysis. Lancet
MS-108
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Oncol 2006;7:991-996. Available at: stage breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2003;349:1793-1802. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17138220. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14551341.
313. van de Velde CJ, Rea D, Seynaeve C, et al. Adjuvant tamoxifen 320. Jin H, Tu D, Zhao N, et al. Longer-term outcomes of letrozole
and exemestane in early breast cancer (TEAM): a randomised phase 3 versus placebo after 5 years of tamoxifen in the NCIC CTG MA.17 trial:
trial. Lancet 2011;377:321-331. Available at: analyses adjusting for treatment crossover. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:718-
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21247627. 721. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22042967.
314. Pagani O, Regan MM, Walley BA, et al. Adjuvant exemestane with 321. Goss PE, Ingle JN, Pater JL, et al. Late extended adjuvant
ovarian suppression in premenopausal breast cancer. N Engl J Med treatment with letrozole improves outcome in women with early-stage
2014;371:107-118. Available at: breast cancer who complete 5 years of tamoxifen. J Clin Oncol
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24881463. 2008;26:1948-1955. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18332475.
315. Francis PA, Pagani O, Fleming GF, et al. Tailoring adjuvant
endocrine therapy for premenopausal breast cancer. N Engl J Med 322. Ingle JN, Tu D, Pater JL, et al. Intent-to-treat analysis of the
2018;379:122-137. Available at: placebo-controlled trial of letrozole for extended adjuvant therapy in early
breast cancer: NCIC CTG MA.17. Ann Oncol 2008;19:877-882. Available
316. Pagani O, Walley BA, Fleming GF, et al. Adjuvant exemestane with at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18332043.
ovarian suppression in premenopausal breast cancer: Long-term follow-
up of the combined TEXT and SOFT trials. Journal of Clinical Oncology 323. Perez EA, Josse RG, Pritchard KI, et al. Effect of letrozole versus
2023;41:1376-1382. Available at: placebo on bone mineral density in women with primary breast cancer
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.22.01064 completing 5 or more years of adjuvant tamoxifen: a companion study to
NCIC CTG MA.17. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:3629-3635. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC10419413/pdf/jco-41- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16822845.
1376.pdf.
324. Whelan TJ, Goss PE, Ingle JN, et al. Assessment of quality of life in
317. Baek SY, Noh WC, Ahn SH, et al. Adding ovarian suppression to MA.17: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial of letrozole after 5 years of
tamoxifen for premenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive tamoxifen in postmenopausal women. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:6931-6940.
breast cancer after chemotherapy: An 8-year follow-up of the ASTRRA Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16157934.
trial. J Clin Oncol 2023;41:4864-4871. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/37607321. 325. Jakesz R, Greil R, Gnant M, et al. Extended adjuvant therapy with
anastrozole among postmenopausal breast cancer patients: results from
318. Pan H, Gray R, Davies C, et al. Predictors of recurrence during the randomized Austrian Breast and Colorectal Cancer Study Group Trial
years 5-14 in 46,138 women with ER+ breast cancer allocated 5 years 6a. J Natl Cancer Inst 2007;99:1845-1853. Available at:
only of endocrine therapy (ET) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:Abstract http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18073378.
505. Available at: http://meetinglibrary.asco.org/content/166053-176.
326. Dowsett M, Cuzick J, Ingle J, et al. Meta-analysis of breast cancer
319. Goss PE, Ingle JN, Martino S, et al. A randomized trial of letrozole outcomes in adjuvant trials of aromatase inhibitors versus tamoxifen. J
in postmenopausal women after five years of tamoxifen therapy for early-
MS-109
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Clin Oncol 2010;28:509-518. Available at: 334. Kaplan M, Mahon S, Cope D, et al. Putting evidence into practice:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19949017. evidence-based interventions for hot flashes resulting from cancer
therapies. Clin J Oncol Nurs 2011;15:149-157. Available at:
327. Goss PE, Ingle JN, Pritchard KI, et al. Extending aromatase- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21444282.
inhibitor adjuvant therapy to 10 years. N Engl J Med 2016;375:209-219.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27264120. 335. Bordeleau L, Pritchard KI, Loprinzi CL, et al. Multicenter,
randomized, cross-over clinical trial of venlafaxine versus gabapentin for
328. Del Mastro L, Mansutti M, Bisagni G, et al. Extended therapy with the management of hot flashes in breast cancer survivors. J Clin Oncol
letrozole as adjuvant treatment of postmenopausal patients with early- 2010;28:5147-5152. Available at:
stage breast cancer: a multicentre, open-label, randomised, phase 3 trial. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21060031.
Lancet Oncol 2021;22:1458-1467. Available at:
336. Garber K. Tamoxifen pharmacogenetics moves closer to reality. J
329. Gnant M, Fitzal F, Rinnerthaler G, et al. Duration of adjuvant Natl Cancer Inst 2005;97:412-413. Available at:
aromatase-inhibitor therapy in postmenopausal breast cancer. N Engl J http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15770000.
Med 2021;385:395-405. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34320285. 337. Jin Y, Desta Z, Stearns V, et al. CYP2D6 genotype, antidepressant
use, and tamoxifen metabolism during adjuvant breast cancer treatment.
330. Smith IE, Dowsett M, Yap Y-S, et al. Adjuvant aromatase inhibitors J Natl Cancer Inst 2005;97:30-39. Available at:
for early breast cancer after chemotherapy-induced amenorrhoea: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15632378.
caution and suggested guidelines. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2444-2447.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16735701. 338. Henry NL, Stearns V, Flockhart DA, et al. Drug interactions and
pharmacogenomics in the treatment of breast cancer and depression.
331. Yu B, Douglas N, Ferin MJ, et al. Changes in markers of ovarian Am J Psychiatry 2008;165:1251-1255. Available at:
reserve and endocrine function in young women with breast cancer http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18829880.
undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy. Cancer 2010;116:2099-2105.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20187091. 339. Ahern TP, Pedersen L, Cronin-Fenton DP, et al. No increase in
breast cancer recurrence with concurrent use of tamoxifen and some
332. Loprinzi CL, Kugler JW, Sloan JA, et al. Venlafaxine in CYP2D6-inhibiting medications. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev
management of hot flashes in survivors of breast cancer: a randomised 2009;18:2562-2564. Available at:
controlled trial. Lancet 2000;356:2059-2063. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19690182.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11145492.
340. Schroth W, Goetz MP, Hamann U, et al. Association between
333. Boekhout AH, Vincent AD, Dalesio OB, et al. Management of hot CYP2D6 polymorphisms and outcomes among women with early stage
flashes in patients who have breast cancer with venlafaxine and breast cancer treated with tamoxifen. JAMA 2009;302:1429-1436.
clonidine: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. J Clin Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19809024.
Oncol 2011;29:3862-3868. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21911720. 341. Regan MM, Leyland-Jones B, Bouzyk M, et al. CYP2D6 genotype
and tamoxifen response in postmenopausal women with endocrine-
MS-110
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
responsive breast cancer: the breast international group 1-98 trial. J Natl anastrozole or tamoxifen: a TransATAC study. J Clin Oncol
Cancer Inst 2012;104:441-451. Available at: 2010;28:1829-1834. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20212256.
342. Rae J, Drury S, Hayes D, et al. Lack of correlation between gene
variants in tamoxifen metabolizing enzymes with primary endpoints in the 349. Mamounas EP, Tang G, Fisher B, et al. Association between the
ATAC trial [abstract]. Cancer Res 2010;70(Suppl):Abstract S1-7. 21-gene recurrence score assay and risk of locoregional recurrence in
Available at: node-negative, estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer: results from
http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/70/24_Me NSABP B-14 and NSABP B-20. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1677-1683.
etingAbstracts/S1-7?sid=e2c268c0-3fe1-481b-a9c9-01b32769a3d9. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20065188.
343. Park HS, Choi JY, Lee MJ, et al. Association between genetic 350. Albain KS, Barlow WE, Shak S, et al. Prognostic and predictive
polymorphisms of CYP2D6 and outcomes in breast cancer patients with value of the 21-gene recurrence score assay in postmenopausal women
tamoxifen treatment. J Korean Med Sci 2011;26:1007-1013. Available at: with node-positive, oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer on
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21860550. chemotherapy: a retrospective analysis of a randomised trial. Lancet
Oncol 2010;11:55-65. Available at:
344. Higgins MJ, Stearns V. Pharmacogenetics of endocrine therapy for http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20005174.
breast cancer. Annu Rev Med 2011;62:281-293. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21226615. 351. Tang G, Shak S, Paik S, et al. Comparison of the prognostic and
predictive utilities of the 21-gene Recurrence Score assay and Adjuvant!
345. Visvanathan K, Chlebowski RT, Hurley P, et al. American Society of for women with node-negative, ER-positive breast cancer: results from
Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline update on the use of NSABP B-14 and NSABP B-20. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2011;127:133-
pharmacologic interventions including tamoxifen, raloxifene, and 142. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21221771.
aromatase inhibition for breast cancer risk reduction. . J Clin Oncol
2009;27:3235-3258. Available at: 352. Sparano JA, Gray RJ, Makower DF, et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19470930. guided by a 21-gene expression assay in breast cancer. N Engl J Med
2018;379:111-121. Available at:
346. Berry DA, Cirrincione C, Henderson IC, et al. Estrogen-receptor https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29860917.
status and outcomes of modern chemotherapy for patients with node-
positive breast cancer. JAMA 2006;295:1658-1667. Available at: 353. Sparano J, Gray, RJ, Wood, WC, Makower, DF, Lively, TG,
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16609087. Saphner, TJ et al. TAILORx: Phase III trial of chemoendocrine therapy
versus endocrine therapy alone in hormone receptor-positive, HER2-
347. Paik S, Shak S, Tang G, et al. A multigene assay to predict negative, node-negative breast cancer and an intermediate prognosis
recurrence of tamoxifen-treated, node-negative breast cancer. N Engl J 21-gene recurrence score [Abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2018;36(Suppl):
Med 2004;351:2817-2826. Available at: Abstract LBA1
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15591335.
Available at: http://abstracts.asco.org/214/AbstView_214_212997.html.
348. Dowsett M, Cuzick J, Wale C, et al. Prediction of risk of distant
recurrence using the 21-gene recurrence score in node-negative and 354. Nitz U, Gluz O, Christgen M, et al. Reducing chemotherapy use in
node-positive postmenopausal patients with breast cancer treated with clinically high-risk, genomically low-risk pN0 and pN1 early breast cancer
MS-111
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
patients: five-year data from the prospective, randomised phase 3 West endocrine therapy for hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. J
German Study Group (WSG) PlanB trial. Breast Cancer Res Treat Clin Oncol 2018;36:735-740. Available at:
2017;165:573-583. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29369732.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28664507.
362. Sestak I, Buus R, Cuzick J, et al. Comparison of the performance of
355. Stemmer SM, Steiner M, Rizel S, et al. Clinical outcomes in ER+ 6 prognostic signatures for estrogen receptor–positive breast cancer: A
HER2 -node-positive breast cancer patients who were treated according secondary analysis of a randomized clinical trial. JAMA Oncol
to the Recurrence Score results: evidence from a large prospectively 2018;4:545-553. Available at:
designed registry. NPJ Breast Cancer 2017;3:32. Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1001/jamaoncol.2017.5524.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28900632.
363. Filipits M, Rudas M, Jakesz R, et al. A new molecular predictor of
356. Gluz O, Nitz UA, Christgen M, et al. West German Study Group distant recurrence in ER-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer adds
phase III PlanB trial: First prospective outcome data for the 21-gene independent information to conventional clinical risk factors. Clin Cancer
recurrence score assay and concordance of prognostic markers by Res 2011;17:6012-6020. Available at:
central and local pathology assessment. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:2341- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21807638.
2349. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26926676.
364. Ma XJ, Wang Z, Ryan PD, et al. A two-gene expression ratio
357. https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01272037 {Identifier: predicts clinical outcome in breast cancer patients treated with
NCT01272037}. Available at: tamoxifen. Cancer Cell 2004;5:607-616. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15193263.
358. Kalinsky K, Barlow WE, Gralow JR, et al. 21-gene assay to inform
chemotherapy benefit in node-positive breast cancer. N Engl J Med 365. Sgroi DC, Sestak I, Cuzick J, et al. Prediction of late distant
2021;385:2336-2347. Available at: recurrence in patients with oestrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer: a
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34914339. prospective comparison of the breast-cancer index (BCI) assay, 21-gene
recurrence score, and IHC4 in the TransATAC study population. Lancet
359. Cardoso F, van’t Veer LJ, Bogaerts J, et al. 70-gene signature as Oncol 2013;14:1067-1076. Available at:
an aid to treatment decisions in early-stage breast cancer. N Engl J Med http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24035531.
2016;375:717-729. Available at:
https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1602253. 366. Noordhoek I, Treuner K, Putter H, et al. Breast Cancer Index
Predicts Extended Endocrine Benefit to Individualize Selection of
360. Dowsett M, Sestak I, Lopez-Knowles E, et al. Comparison of Patients with HR(+) Early-stage Breast Cancer for 10 Years of Endocrine
PAM50 risk of recurrence score with oncotype DX and IHC4 for Therapy. Clin Cancer Res 2021;27:311-319. Available at:
predicting risk of distant recurrence after endocrine therapy. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33109739.
2013;31:2783-2790. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23816962. 367. Blok EJ, Kroep JR, Meershoek-Klein Kranenbarg E, et al. Optimal
Duration of Extended Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy for Early Breast
361. Laenkholm AV, Jensen MB, Eriksen JO, et al. PAM50 risk of Cancer; Results of the IDEAL Trial (BOOG 2006-05). J Natl Cancer Inst
recurrence score predicts 10-year distant recurrence in a comprehensive 2018;110. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28922787.
danish cohort of postmenopausal women allocated to 5 years of
MS-112
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
368. Bartlett JMS, Sgroi DC, Treuner K, et al. Breast Cancer Index and 375. Coleman RE, Marshall H, Cameron D, et al. Breast-cancer adjuvant
prediction of benefit from extended endocrine therapy in breast cancer therapy with zoledronic acid. N Engl J Med 2011;365:1396-1405.
patients treated in the Adjuvant Tamoxifen—To Offer More? (aTTom) Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21995387.
trial. Annals of Oncology 2019;30:1776-1783. Available at:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923753420325898 376. Valachis A, Polyzos NP, Coleman RE, et al. Adjuvant therapy with
zoledronic acid in patients with breast cancer: a systematic review and
https://www.annalsofoncology.org/article/S0923-7534(20)32589-8/pdf. meta-analysis. Oncologist 2013;18:353-361. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23404816.
369. Johnston SRD, Harbeck N, Hegg R, et al. Abemaciclib combined
with endocrine therapy for the adjuvant treatment of hr+, her2-, node- 377. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative G, Coleman R, Powles
positive, high-risk, early breast cancer (monarchE). J Clin Oncol T, et al. Adjuvant bisphosphonate treatment in early breast cancer: meta-
2020;38:3987-3998. Available at: analyses of individual patient data from randomised trials. Lancet
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32954927. 2015;386:1353-1361. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26211824.
370. Gnant M, Dueck AC, Frantal S, et al. Adjuvant palbociclib for early
breast cancer: The PALLAS trial results (ABCSG-42/AFT-05/BIG-14-03). 378. Gnant M, Pfeiler G, Dubsky PC, et al. Adjuvant denosumab in
J Clin Oncol 2022;40:282-293. Available at: breast cancer (ABCSG-18): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind,
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34874182. placebo-controlled trial. Lancet 2015;386:433-443. Available at:
371. Loibl S, Marmé F, Martin M, et al. Palbociclib for residual high-risk 379. Gnant M, Frantal S, Pfeiler G, et al. Long-term outcomes of
invasive hr-positive and her2-negative early breast cancer-The adjuvant denosumab in breast cancer. NEJM Evidence
Penelope-B trial. J Clin Oncol 2021;39:1518-1530. Available at: 2022;1:EVIDoa2200162. Available at:
https://evidence.nejm.org/doi/abs/10.1056/EVIDoa2200162.
372. Slamon D, Lipatov O, Nowecki Z, et al. Ribociclib plus endocrine
therapy in early breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2024;390:1080-1091. 380. Coleman R, Finkelstein DM, Barrios C, et al. Adjuvant denosumab
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/38507751. in early breast cancer (D-CARE): an international, multicentre,
randomised, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:60-72.
373. Geyer CE, Jr., Garber JE, Gelber RD, et al. Overall survival in the Available at:
OlympiA phase III trial of adjuvant olaparib in patients with germline
pathogenic variants in BRCA1/2 and high-risk, early breast cancer. Ann 381. Gray R, Bradley R, Braybrooke J, et al. Increasing the dose
Oncol 2022;33:1250-1268. Available at: intensity of chemotherapy by more frequent administration or sequential
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36228963. scheduling: a patient-level meta-analysis of 37&#x2008;298 women with
early breast cancer in 26 randomised trials. The Lancet 2019;393:1440-
374. Gnant M, Mlineritsch B, Stoeger H, et al. Adjuvant endocrine 1452. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(18)33137-4.
therapy plus zoledronic acid in premenopausal women with early-stage
breast cancer: 62-month follow-up from the ABCSG-12 randomised trial. 382. Henderson I, Berry D, Demetri G, et al. Improved outcomes from
The Lancet. Oncology 2011;12:631-641. Available at: adding sequential paclitaxel but not from escalating doxorubicin dose in
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21641868. an adjuvant chemotherapy regimen for patients with node-positive
MS-113
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
primary breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:976-983. Available at: 389. Joensuu H, Kellokumpu-Lehtinen PL, Huovinen R, et al. Adjuvant
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12637460. capecitabine, docetaxel, cyclophosphamide, and epirubicin for early
breast cancer: final analysis of the randomized FinXX trial. J Clin Oncol
383. Mamounas E, Bryant J, Lembersky B, et al. Paclitaxel after 2012;30:11-18. Available at:
doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide as adjuvant chemotherapy for node- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22105826.
positive breast cancer: results from NSABP B-28. J Clin Oncol
2005;23:3686-3696. Available at: 390. Piccart MJ, Di Leo A, Beauduin M, et al. Phase III trial comparing
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15897552. two dose levels of epirubicin combined with cyclophosphamide with
cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil in node-positive
384. Citron ML, Berry DA, Cirrincione C, et al. Randomized trial of dose- breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:3103-3110. Available at:
dense versus conventionally scheduled and sequential versus http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11408507.
concurrent combination chemotherapy as postoperative adjuvant
treatment of node-positive primary breast cancer: first report of 391. Martin M, Pienkowski T, Mackey J, et al. Adjuvant docetaxel for
Intergroup Trial C9741/Cancer and Leukemia Group B Trial 9741. J Clin node-positive breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;352:2302-2313.
Oncol 2003;21:1431-1439. Available at: Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15930421.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12668651.
392. Swain SM, Jeong J-H, Geyer CE, et al. NSABP B-30: definitive
385. Sparano J, Wang M, Martino S, et al. Weekly paclitaxel in the analysis of patient outcome from a randomized trial evaluating different
adjuvant treatment of breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2008;358:1663-1671. schedules and combinations of adjuvant therapy containing doxorubicin,
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18420499. docetaxel and cyclophosphamide in women with operable, node-positive
breast cancer [abstract]. Cancer Research 2009;69(Suppl):Abstract 75.
386. Jones S, Holmes FA, O'Shaughnessy J, et al. Docetaxel with Available at:
cyclophosphamide is associated with an overall survival benefit http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/69/2_Mee
compared with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide: 7-year follow-up of tingAbstracts/75.
US Oncology Research trial 9735. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1177-1183.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19204201. 393. Sparano JA, Zhao F, Martino S, et al. Long-term follow-up of the
e1199 phase iii trial evaluating the role of taxane and schedule in
387. Kuroi K, Toi M, Ohno S, et al. Prognostic significance of subtype operable breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:2353-2360. Available at:
and pathologic response in operable breast cancer; a pooled analysis of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26077235.
prospective neoadjuvant studies of JBCRG. Breast Cancer 2015;22:486-
495. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24338638. 394. Bang SM, Heo DS, Lee KH, et al. Adjuvant doxorubicin and
cyclophosphamide versus cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-
388. Martín M, Simón AR, Borrego MR, et al. Epirubicin plus fluorouracil chemotherapy in premenopausal women with axillary lymph
cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel versus epirubicin plus node positive breast carcinoma. Cancer 2000;89:2521-2526. Available
docetaxel followed by capecitabine as adjuvant therapy for node-positive at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11135211.
early breast cancer: Results from the GEICAM/2003-10 study. Journal of
Clinical Oncology 2015;33:3788-3795. Available at: 395. Fisher B, Brown AM, Dimitrov NV, et al. Two months of doxorubicin-
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2015.61.9510. cyclophosphamide with and without interval reinduction therapy
compared with 6 months of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and
MS-114
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
fluorouracil in positive-node breast cancer patients with tamoxifen- negative breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5693-5699. Available at:
nonresponsive tumors: results from the National Surgical Adjuvant http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19884553.
Breast and Bowel Project B-15. J Clin Oncol 1990;8:1483-1496.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2202791. 402. Untch M, Gelber RD, Jackisch C, et al. Estimating the magnitude of
trastuzumab effects within patient subgroups in the HERA trial. Ann
396. Fisher B, Anderson S, Wickerham DL, et al. Increased Oncol 2008;19:1090-1096. Available at:
intensification and total dose of cyclophosphamide in a doxorubicin- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18296421.
cyclophosphamide regimen for the treatment of primary breast cancer:
findings from National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project B-22. 403. Slamon D, Eiermann W, Robert N, et al. Adjuvant trastuzumab in
J Clin Oncol 1997;15:1858-1869. Available at: HER2-positive breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2011;365:1273-1283.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9164196. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21991949.
397. Polychemotherapy for early breast cancer: an overview of the 404. Tolaney SM, Barry WT, Dang CT, et al. Adjuvant paclitaxel and
randomised trials. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group. trastuzumab for node-negative, HER2-positive breast cancer. N Engl J
Lancet 1998;352:930-942. Available at: Med 2015;372:134-141. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9752815. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25564897.
398. Wang X, Wang SS, Huang H, et al. Effect of Capecitabine 405. Tolaney SM, Tarantino P, Graham N, et al. Adjuvant paclitaxel and
Maintenance Therapy Using Lower Dosage and Higher Frequency vs trastuzumab for node-negative, HER2-positive breast cancer: final 10-
Observation on Disease-Free Survival Among Patients With Early-Stage year analysis of the open-label, single-arm, phase 2 APT trial. Lancet
Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Who Had Received Standard Treatment: Oncol 2023;24:273-285. Available at:
The SYSUCC-001 Randomized Clinical Trial. Jama 2021;325:50-58. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36858723.
Available at:
406. Joensuu H, Kellokumpu-Lehtinen P, Bono P, et al. Adjuvant
399. Chia S, Norris B, Speers C, et al. Human epidermal growth factor docetaxel or vinorelbine with or without trastuzumab for breast cancer. N
receptor 2 overexpression as a prognostic factor in a large tissue Engl J Med 2006;354:809-820. Available at:
microarray series of node-negative breast cancers. J Clin Oncol http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16495393.
2008;26:5697-5704. Available at:
407. Joensuu H, Bono P, Kataja V, et al. Fluorouracil, epirubicin, and
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19001334.
cyclophosphamide with either docetaxel or vinorelbine, with or without
400. Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Litton JK, Broglio KR, et al. High risk of trastuzumab, as adjuvant treatments of breast cancer: final results of the
recurrence for patients with breast cancer who have human epidermal FinHer Trial. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5685-5692. Available at:
growth factor receptor 2-positive, node-negative tumors 1 cm or smaller. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19884557.
J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5700-5706. Available at:
408. von Minckwitz G, Procter M, de Azambuja E, et al. Adjuvant
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19884543.
Pertuzumab and Trastuzumab in Early HER2-Positive Breast Cancer.
401. Curigliano G, Viale G, Bagnardi V, et al. Clinical relevance of HER2 New England Journal of Medicine 2017;377:122-131. Available at:
overexpression/amplification in patients with small tumor size and node- http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1703643.
MS-115
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
409. Loibl S, Jassem J, Sonnenblick A, et al. VP6-2022: Adjuvant node-positive breast cancer and trastuzumab in the human epidermal
pertuzumab and trastuzumab in patients with early HER-2 positive breast growth factor receptor 2-positive subgroup. Eur J Cancer 2019;122:91-
cancer in APHINITY: 8.4 years' follow-up. Annals of Oncology 100. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31634648.
2022;33:986-987. Available at:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0923753422017380. 416. Piccart-Gebhart M, Procter M, Leyland-Jones B, et al. Trastuzumab
after adjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive breast cancer. N Engl J
410. von Minckwitz G, Huang CS, Mano MS, et al. Trastuzumab Med 2005;353:1659-1672. Available at:
Emtansine for Residual Invasive HER2-Positive Breast Cancer. N Engl J http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16236737.
Med 2019;380:617-628. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30516102. 417. Perez EA, Romond EH, Suman VJ, et al. Four-year follow-up of
trastuzumab plus adjuvant chemotherapy for operable human epidermal
411. Tarantino P, Tayob N, Dang CT, et al. Abstract PD18-01: Adjuvant growth factor receptor 2-positive breast cancer: joint analysis of data
Trastuzumab Emtansine Versus Paclitaxel plus Trastuzumab for Stage I from NCCTG N9831 and NSABP B-31. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:3366-3373.
HER2+ Breast Cancer: 5-year results and correlative analyses from Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21768458.
ATEMPT (TBCRC033). Cancer Research 2023;83:PD18-01-PD18-01.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1158/1538-7445.SABCS22-PD18-01. 418. Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative g. Trastuzumab for
early-stage, HER2-positive breast cancer: a meta-analysis of 13 864
412. Romond E, Perez E, Bryant J, et al. Trastuzumab plus adjuvant women in seven randomised trials. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:1139-1150.
chemotherapy for operable HER2-positive breast cancer. N Engl J Med Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34339645.
2005;353:1673-1684. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16236738. 419. Romond E, Suman V, Jeong J-H, et al. Trastuzumab plus adjuvant
chemotherapy for HER2-positive breast cancer: Final planned joint
413. Perez EA, Suman VJ, Rowland KM, et al. Two concurrent phase II analysis of overall survival (OS) from NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831.
trials of paclitaxel/carboplatin/trastuzumab (weekly or every-3-week Cancer Research 2012;72:S5-5. Available at:
schedule) as first-line therapy in women with HER2-overexpressing http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/72/24_Me
metastatic breast cancer: NCCTG study 983252. Clin Breast Cancer etingAbstracts/S5-5.
2005;6:425-432. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16381626. 420. van Ramshorst MS, van der Voort A, van Werkhoven ED, et al.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy with or without anthracyclines in the
414. Gianni L, Eiermann W, Semiglazov V, et al. Neoadjuvant presence of dual HER2 blockade for HER2-positive breast cancer
chemotherapy with trastuzumab followed by adjuvant trastuzumab (TRAIN-2): a multicentre, open-label, randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet
versus neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone, in patients with HER2-positive Oncol 2018;19:1630-1640. Available at:
locally advanced breast cancer (the NOAH trial): a randomised controlled https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30413379.
superiority trial with a parallel HER2-negative cohort. The Lancet
2010;375:377-384. Available at: 421. Nitz UA, Gluz O, Christgen M, et al. De-escalation strategies in
http://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0140673609619644. HER2-positive early breast cancer (EBC): final analysis of the WSG-
ADAPT HER2+/HR- phase II trial: efficacy, safety, and predictive
415. D'Hondt V, Canon JL, Roca L, et al. UCBG 2-04: Long-term results markers for 12 weeks of neoadjuvant dual blockade with trastuzumab
of the PACS 04 trial evaluating adjuvant epirubicin plus docetaxel in
MS-116
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
and pertuzumab +/- weekly paclitaxel. Ann Oncol 2017;28:2768-2772. (ACP) with ACP plus trastuzumab as adjuvant therapy for patients with
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28945833. node-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive breast
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:3792-3799. Available at:
422. van der Voort A, van Ramshorst MS, van Werkhoven ED, et al. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22987084.
Three-year follow-up of neoadjuvant chemotherapy with or without
anthracyclines in the presence of dual erbb2 blockade in patients with 428. Moran MS, Schnitt SJ, Giuliano AE, et al. Society of Surgical
erbb2-positive breast cancer: A secondary analysis of the train-2 Oncology–American Society for Radiation Oncology Consensus
randomized, phase 3 trial. JAMA Oncol 2021;7:978-984. Available at: Guideline on Margins for Breast-Conserving Surgery With Whole-Breast
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34014249. Irradiation in Stages I and II Invasive Breast Cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol
Biol Phys 2014;88:553-564. Available at:
423. Earl HM, Hiller L, Vallier AL, et al. 6 versus 12 months of adjuvant https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.11.012.
trastuzumab for HER2-positive early breast cancer (PERSEPHONE): 4-
year disease-free survival results of a randomised phase 3 non-inferiority 429. Impact of follow-up testing on survival and health-related quality of
trial. Lancet 2019;393:2599-2612. Available at: life in breast cancer patients. A multicenter randomized controlled trial.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31178152. The GIVIO Investigators. JAMA 1994;271:1587-1592. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8182811.
424. Pivot X, Romieu G, Debled M, et al. 6 months versus 12 months of
adjuvant trastuzumab in early breast cancer (PHARE): final analysis of a 430. Rosselli Del Turco M, Palli D, Cariddi A, et al. Intensive diagnostic
multicentre, open-label, phase 3 randomised trial. Lancet follow-up after treatment of primary breast cancer. A randomized trial.
2019;393:2591-2598. Available at: National Research Council Project on Breast Cancer follow-up. JAMA
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31178155. 1994;271:1593-1597. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7848404.
425. Perez EA, Suman VJ, Davidson NE, et al. Cardiac safety analysis
of doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel with or 431. Smith TJ, Davidson NE, Schapira DV, et al. American Society of
without trastuzumab in the North Central Cancer Treatment Group Clinical Oncology 1998 update of recommended breast cancer
N9831 adjuvant breast cancer trial. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:1231-1238. surveillance guidelines. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:1080-1082. Available at:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18250349. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10071303.
426. Tan-Chiu E, Yothers G, Romond E, et al. Assessment of cardiac 432. Bast RC, Ravdin P, Hayes DF, et al. 2000 update of
dysfunction in a randomized trial comparing doxorubicin and recommendations for the use of tumor markers in breast and colorectal
cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel, with or without trastuzumab as cancer: clinical practice guidelines of the American Society of Clinical
adjuvant therapy in node-positive, human epidermal growth factor Oncology. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:1865-1878. Available at:
receptor 2-overexpressing breast cancer: NSABP B-31. J Clin Oncol http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11251019.
2005;23:7811-7819. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16258083. 433. Kirova YM, Stoppa-Lyonnet D, Savignoni A, et al. Risk of breast
cancer recurrence and contralateral breast cancer in relation to BRCA1
427. Romond EH, Jeong JH, Rastogi P, et al. Seven-year follow-up and BRCA2 mutation status following breast-conserving surgery and
assessment of cardiac function in NSABP B-31, a randomized trial radiotherapy. Eur J Cancer 2005;41:2304-2311. Available at:
comparing doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide followed by paclitaxel http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16140006.
MS-117
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
434. Metcalfe K, Lynch HT, Ghadirian P, et al. Contralateral breast 2009;360:679-691. Available at:
cancer in BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers. J Clin Oncol http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19213681.
2004;22:2328-2335. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15197194. 443. Li CI, Daling JR, Porter PL, et al. Relationship between potentially
modifiable lifestyle factors and risk of second primary contralateral breast
435. Pierce LJ, Levin AM, Rebbeck TR, et al. Ten-year multi-institutional cancer among women diagnosed with estrogen receptor-positive
results of breast-conserving surgery and radiotherapy in BRCA1/2- invasive breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:5312-5318. Available at:
associated stage I/II breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2437-2443. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19738113.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16636335.
444. Pierce JP, Stefanick ML, Flatt SW, et al. Greater survival after
436. ACOG committee opinion. No. 336: Tamoxifen and uterine cancer. breast cancer in physically active women with high vegetable-fruit intake
Obstet Gynecol 2006;107:1475-1478. Available at: regardless of obesity. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:2345-2351. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16738185. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17557947.
437. Osterberg L, Blaschke T. Adherence to medication. N Engl J Med 445. Chlebowski RT BG, et al. . Final survival analysis from the
2005;353:487-497. Available at: randomized Women's Intervention Nutrition Study (WINS) evaluating
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16079372. dietary intervention as adjuvant breast cancer therapy [abstract]. San
Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium 2014;Abstract S5-08. Available at:
438. Dayes IS, Whelan TJ, Julian JA, et al. Randomized trial of
decongestive lymphatic therapy for the treatment of lymphedema in 446. de Glas NA, Fontein DB, Bastiaannet E, et al. Physical activity and
women with breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:3758-3763. Available survival of postmenopausal, hormone receptor-positive breast cancer
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24043733. patients: results of the Tamoxifen Exemestane Adjuvant Multicenter
Lifestyle study. Cancer 2014;120:2847-2854. Available at:
439. Warren AG, Brorson H, Borud LJ, Slavin SA. Lymphedema: a http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24840230.
comprehensive review. Ann Plast Surg 2007;59:464-472. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17901744. 447. Courneya KS, Segal RJ, McKenzie DC, et al. Effects of exercise
during adjuvant chemotherapy on breast cancer outcomes. Med Sci
440. Hickey M, Peate M, Saunders CM, Friedlander M. Breast cancer in Sports Exerc 2014;46:1744-1751. Available at:
young women and its impact on reproductive function. Human http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24633595.
Reproduction Update 2009;15:323-339. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19174449. 448. Mishra SI, Scherer RW, Snyder C, et al. Exercise interventions on
health-related quality of life for people with cancer during active
441. Moran MS, Colasanto JM, Haffty BG, et al. Effects of breast- treatment. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2012;8:CD008465. Available at:
conserving therapy on lactation after pregnancy. Cancer J 2005;11:399- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22895974.
403. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16259870.
449. Eubank WB, Mankoff D, Bhattacharya M, et al. Impact of FDG PET
442. Gnant M, Mlineritsch B, Schippinger W, et al. Endocrine therapy on defining the extent of disease and on the treatment of patients with
plus zoledronic acid in premenopausal breast cancer. N Engl J Med recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. AJR Am J Roentgenol
MS-118
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
2004;183:479-486. Available at: with breast cancer. Med Oncol 2011;28:57-63. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15269044. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20099049.
450. Moon DH, Maddahi J, Silverman DH, et al. Accuracy of whole-body 457. Simmons C, Miller N, Geddie W, et al. Does confirmatory tumor
fluorine-18-FDG PET for the detection of recurrent or metastatic breast biopsy alter the management of breast cancer patients with distant
carcinoma. J Nucl Med 1998;39:431-435. Available at: metastases? Ann Oncol 2009;20:1499-1504. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9529287. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19299408.
451. Arslan C, Sari E, Aksoy S, Altundag K. Variation in hormone 458. Gong Y, Booser DJ, Sneige N. Comparison of HER-2 status
receptor and HER-2 status between primary and metastatic breast determined by fluorescence in situ hybridization in primary and
cancer: review of the literature. Expert Opin Ther Targets 2011;15:21-30. metastatic breast carcinoma. Cancer 2005;103:1763-1769. Available at:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21105765. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15786420.
452. Pusztai L, Viale G, Kelly CM, Hudis CA. Estrogen and HER-2 459. Tapia C, Savic S, Wagner U, et al. HER2 gene status in primary
receptor discordance between primary breast cancer and metastasis. breast cancers and matched distant metastases. Breast Cancer Res
Oncologist 2010;15:1164-1168. Available at: 2007;9. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17511881.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21041379.
460. Lindstrom LS, Karlsson E, Wilking UM, et al. Clinically used breast
453. Bogina G, Bortesi L, Marconi M, et al. Comparison of hormonal cancer markers such as estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and
receptor and HER-2 status between breast primary tumours and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 are unstable throughout tumor
relapsing tumours: clinical implications of progesterone receptor loss. progression. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2601-2608. Available at:
Virchows Arch 2011;459:1-10. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22711854.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21643691.
461. Dieci MV, Barbieri E, Piacentini F, et al. Discordance in receptor
454. Fabi A, Di Benedetto A, Metro G, et al. HER2 protein and gene status between primary and recurrent breast cancer has a prognostic
variation between primary and metastatic breast cancer: significance and impact: a single-institution analysis. Ann Oncol 2013;24:101-108.
impact on patient care. Clin Cancer Res 2011;17:2055-2064. Available Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23002281.
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21307144.
462. Aurilio G, Disalvatore D, Pruneri G, et al. A meta-analysis of
455. Karlsson E, Lindström LS, Wilking U, et al. Discordance in hormone oestrogen receptor, progesterone receptor and human epidermal growth
receptor status in breast cancer during tumor progression [abstract]. J factor receptor 2 discordance between primary breast cancer and
Clin Oncol 2010;28:(Suppl):Abstract 1009. Available at: metastases. Eur J Cancer 2014;50:277-289. Available at:
http://www.asco.org/ASCOv2/Meetings/Abstracts?&vmview=abst_detail_ http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24269135.
view&confID=74&abstractID=47385.
463. Katz A, Strom EA, Buchholz TA, et al. Locoregional recurrence
456. Sari E, Guler G, Hayran M, et al. Comparative study of the patterns after mastectomy and doxorubicin-based chemotherapy:
immunohistochemical detection of hormone receptor status and HER-2 implications for postoperative irradiation. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:2817-
expression in primary and paired recurrent/metastatic lesions of patients 2827. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10920129.
MS-119
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
464. van Tienhoven G, Voogd AC, Peterse JL, et al. Prognosis after 2008;15:1696-1702. Available at:
treatment for loco-regional recurrence after mastectomy or breast http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18357493.
conserving therapy in two randomised trials (EORTC 10801 and DBCG-
82TM). EORTC Breast Cancer Cooperative Group and the Danish 472. Rapiti E, Verkooijen HM, Vlastos G, et al. Complete excision of
Breast Cancer Cooperative Group. Eur J Cancer 1999;35:32-38. primary breast tumor improves survival of patients with metastatic breast
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10211085. cancer at diagnosis. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2743-2749. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16702580.
465. Cox CE, Furman BT, Kiluk JV, et al. Use of reoperative sentinel
lymph node biopsy in breast cancer patients. J Am Coll Surg 473. Morrow M, Goldstein L. Surgery of the primary tumor in metastatic
2008;207:57-61. Available at: breast cancer: closing the barn door after the horse has bolted? J Clin
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18589362. Oncol 2006;24:2694-2696. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16702578.
466. Poodt IGM, Vugts G, Schipper RJ, Nieuwenhuijzen GAP. Repeat
sentinel lymph node biopsy for ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence: A 474. Olson JA, Marcom PK. Benefit or bias? The role of surgery to
systematic review of the results and impact on prognosis. Ann Surg remove the primary tumor in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Ann
Oncol 2018;25:1329-1339. Available at: Surg 2008;247:739-740. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29468606. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18438109.
467. Aebi S, Gelber S, Anderson SJ, et al. Chemotherapy for isolated 475. Badwe R, Hawaldar R, Nair N, et al. Locoregional treatment versus
locoregional recurrence of breast cancer (CALOR): a randomised trial. no treatment of the primary tumour in metastatic breast cancer: an open-
Lancet Oncol 2014;15:156-163. Available at: label randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2015;16:1380-1388.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24439313. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26363985.
468. Hortobagyi GN. Multidisciplinary management of advanced primary 476. King TA, Lyman JP, Gonen M, et al. Prognostic Impact of 21-Gene
and metastatic breast cancer. Cancer 1994;74:416-423. Available at: Recurrence Score in Patients With Stage IV Breast Cancer: TBCRC 013.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8004615. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:2359-2365. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27001590.
469. Babiera GV, Rao R, Feng L, et al. Effect of primary tumor
extirpation in breast cancer patients who present with stage IV disease 477. King TA, Lyman J, Gonen M, et al. A prospective analysis of
and an intact primary tumor. Ann Surg Oncol 2006;13:776-782. Available surgery and survival in stage IV breast cancer (TBCRC 013). Journal of
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16614878. Clinical Oncology 2016;34:1006-1006. Available at:
https://doi.org/10.1200/JCO.2016.34.15_suppl.1006.
470. Khan SA, Stewart AK, Morrow M. Does aggressive local therapy
improve survival in metastatic breast cancer? Surgery 2002;132:620- 478. Soran A, Ozmen V, Ozbas S, et al. Randomized Trial Comparing
626. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12407345. Resection of Primary Tumor with No Surgery in Stage IV Breast Cancer
at Presentation: Protocol MF07-01. Ann Surg Oncol 2018;25:3141-3149.
471. Rao R, Feng L, Kuerer HM, et al. Timing of surgical intervention for Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29777404.
the intact primary in stage IV breast cancer patients. Ann Surg Oncol
MS-120
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
479. Higgins MJ, Wolff AC. Therapeutic options in the management of 486. Pecherstorfer M, Rivkin S, Body J-J, et al. Long-term safety of
metastatic breast cancer. Oncology (Williston Park) 2008;22:614-623. intravenous ibandronic acid for up to 4 years in metastatic breast cancer:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18561551. an open-label trial. Clin Drug Investig 2006;26:315-322. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17163265.
480. Woo S-B, Hellstein JW, Kalmar JR. Narrative [corrected] review:
bisphosphonates and osteonecrosis of the jaws. Ann Intern Med 487. Rosen LS, Gordon DH, Dugan W, et al. Zoledronic acid is superior
2006;144:753-761. Available at: to pamidronate for the treatment of bone metastases in breast carcinoma
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16702591. patients with at least one osteolytic lesion. Cancer 2004;100:36-43.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14692022.
481. Diel IJ, Body JJ, Lichinitser MR, et al. Improved quality of life after
long-term treatment with the bisphosphonate ibandronate in patients with 488. Theriault RL, Lipton A, Hortobagyi GN, et al. Pamidronate reduces
metastatic bone disease due to breast cancer. Eur J Cancer skeletal morbidity in women with advanced breast cancer and lytic bone
2004;40:1704-1712. Available at: lesions: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Protocol 18 Aredia Breast
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15251160. Cancer Study Group. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:846-854. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10071275.
482. Hortobagyi GN, Theriault RL, Lipton A, et al. Long-term prevention
of skeletal complications of metastatic breast cancer with pamidronate. 489. Amadori D, Aglietta M, Alessi B, et al. Efficacy and safety of 12-
Protocol 19 Aredia Breast Cancer Study Group. J Clin Oncol weekly versus 4-weekly zoledronic acid for prolonged treatment of
1998;16:2038-2044. Available at: patients with bone metastases from breast cancer (ZOOM): a phase 3,
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9626201. open-label, randomised, non-inferiority trial. Lancet Oncol 2013;14:663-
670. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23684411.
483. Hortobagyi GN, Theriault RL, Porter L, et al. Efficacy of
pamidronate in reducing skeletal complications in patients with breast 490. Himelstein AL, Foster JC, Khatcheressian JL, et al. Effect of longer-
cancer and lytic bone metastases. Protocol 19 Aredia Breast Cancer interval vs standard dosing of zoledronic acid on skeletal events in
Study Group. N Engl J Med 1996;335:1785-1791. Available at: patients with bone metastases: A randomized clinical trial. JAMA
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8965890. 2017;317:48-58. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28030702.
484. Lipton A, Theriault RL, Hortobagyi GN, et al. Pamidronate prevents
skeletal complications and is effective palliative treatment in women with 491. Hortobagyi GN, Van Poznak C, Harker WG, et al. Continued
breast carcinoma and osteolytic bone metastases: long term follow-up of treatment effect of zoledronic acid dosing every 12 vs 4 weeks in women
two randomized, placebo-controlled trials. Cancer 2000;88:1082-1090. with breast cancer metastatic to bone: The OPTIMIZE-2 randomized
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10699899. clinical trial. JAMA Oncol 2017;3:906-912. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28125763.
485. McLachlan SA, Cameron D, Murray R, et al. Safety of oral
ibandronate in the treatment of bone metastases from breast cancer: 492. Hortobagyi GN, Lipton A, Chew HK, et al. Efficacy and safety of
long-term follow-up experience. Clin Drug Investig 2006;26:43-48. continued zoledronic acid every 4 weeks versus every 12 weeks in
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17163234. women with bone metastases from breast cancer: Results of the
OPTIMIZE-2 trial. ASCO Meeting Abstracts 2014;32:LBA9500. Available
MS-121
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
at: 500. Robertson JF, Llombart-Cussac A, Rolski J, et al. Activity of
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/32/18_suppl/LBA9500. fulvestrant 500 mg versus anastrozole 1 mg as first-line treatment for
advanced breast cancer: results from the FIRST study. J Clin Oncol
493. Rosen LS, Gordon D, Kaminski M, et al. Long-term efficacy and 2009;27:4530-4535. Available at:
safety of zoledronic acid compared with pamidronate disodium in the http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19704066.
treatment of skeletal complications in patients with advanced multiple
myeloma or breast carcinoma: a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, 501. Robertson JF, Lindemann JP, Llombart-Cussac A, et al. Fulvestrant
comparative trial. Cancer 2003;98:1735-1744. Available at: 500 mg versus anastrozole 1 mg for the first-line treatment of advanced
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14534891. breast cancer: follow-up analysis from the randomized 'FIRST' study.
Breast Cancer Res Treat 2012;136:503-511. Available at:
494. Stopeck AT, Lipton A, Body JJ, et al. Denosumab compared with http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23065000.
zoledronic acid for the treatment of bone metastases in patients with
advanced breast cancer: A randomized, double-blind study. J Clin Oncol 502. Ellis MJ, Llombart-Cussac A, Feltl D, et al. Fulvestrant 500 mg
2010;28:5132-5139. Available at: versus anastrozole 1 mg for the first-Line treatment of advanced breast
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21060033. cancer: Overall survival analysis from the phase II FIRST study. J Clin
Oncol 2015;33:3781-3787. Available at:
495. Finn RS, Martin M, Rugo HS, et al. Palbociclib and Letrozole in http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26371134.
Advanced Breast Cancer. N Engl J Med 2016;375:1925-1936. Available
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27959613. 503. Di Leo A, Jerusalem G, Petruzelka L, et al. Results of the
CONFIRM phase III trial comparing fulvestrant 250 mg with fulvestrant
496. Hortobagyi GN, Stemmer SM, Burris HA, et al. Updated results from 500 mg in postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive
MONALEESA-2, a phase III trial of first-line ribociclib plus letrozole advanced breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:4594-4600. Available at:
versus placebo plus letrozole in hormone receptor-positive, HER2- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20855825.
negative advanced breast cancer. Ann Oncol 2018;29:1541-1547.
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29718092. 504. Di Leo A, Jerusalem G, Petruzelka L, et al. Final overall survival:
fulvestrant 500 mg vs 250 mg in the randomized CONFIRM trial. J Natl
497. Goetz MP, Toi M, Campone M, et al. MONARCH 3: Abemaciclib As Cancer Inst 2014;106:djt337. Available at:
Initial Therapy for Advanced Breast Cancer. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:3638- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24317176.
3646. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28968163.
505. Robertson JFR, Bondarenko IM, Trishkina E, et al. Fulvestrant 500
498. Tripathy D, Im SA, Colleoni M, et al. Ribociclib plus endocrine mg versus anastrozole 1 mg for hormone receptor-positive advanced
therapy for premenopausal women with hormone-receptor-positive, breast cancer (FALCON): an international, randomised, double-blind,
advanced breast cancer (MONALEESA-7): a randomised phase 3 trial. phase 3 trial. Lancet 2016;388:2997-3005. Available at:
Lancet Oncol 2018;19:904-915. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27908454.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29804902.
506. Slamon DJ, Neven P, Chia S, et al. Phase III randomized study of
499. Im SA, Lu YS, Bardia A, et al. Overall survival with ribociclib plus ribociclib and fulvestrant in hormone receptor-positive, human epidermal
endocrine therapy in breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;381:307-316. growth factor receptor 2-negative advanced breast cancer:
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31166679. MONALEESA-3. J Clin Oncol 2018:Jco2018789909. Available at:
MS-122
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
507. Slamon DJ, Neven P, Chia S, et al. Overall survival with ribociclib Cancer 1998;83:1142-1152. Available at:
plus fulvestrant in advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2020;382:514- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9740079.
524. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31826360.
514. Campos SM, Guastalla JP, Subar M, et al. A comparative study of
508. Bergh J, Jonsson PE, Lidbrink EK, et al. FACT: an open-label exemestane versus anastrozole in patients with postmenopausal breast
randomized phase III study of fulvestrant and anastrozole in combination cancer with visceral metastases. Clin Breast Cancer 2009;9:39-44.
compared with anastrozole alone as first-line therapy for patients with Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19299239.
receptor-positive postmenopausal breast cancer. J Clin Oncol
2012;30:1919-1925. Available at: 515. Sunderland MC, Osborne CK. Tamoxifen in premenopausal
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22370325. patients with metastatic breast cancer: a review. J Clin Oncol
1991;9:1283-1297. Available at:
509. Johnston SR, Kilburn LS, Ellis P, et al. Fulvestrant plus anastrozole
or placebo versus exemestane alone after progression on non-steroidal 516. Bonneterre J, Thurlimann B, Robertson JF, et al. Anastrozole
aromatase inhibitors in postmenopausal patients with hormone-receptor- versus tamoxifen as first-line therapy for advanced breast cancer in 668
positive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer (SoFEA): a postmenopausal women: results of the Tamoxifen or Arimidex
composite, multicentre, phase 3 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol Randomized Group Efficacy and Tolerability study. J Clin Oncol
2013;14:989-998. Available at: 2000;18:3748-3757. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23902874. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11078487.
510. Mehta RS, Barlow WE, Albain KS, et al. Combination anastrozole 517. Nabholtz JM, Buzdar A, Pollak M, et al. Anastrozole is superior to
and fulvestrant in metastatic breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2012;367:435- tamoxifen as first-line therapy for advanced breast cancer in
444. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22853014. postmenopausal women: results of a North American multicenter
randomized trial. Arimidex Study Group. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:3758-
511. Mehta RS, Barlow WE, Albain KS, et al. Overall survival with 3767. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11078488.
fulvestrant plus anastrozole in metastatic breast cancer. N Engl J Med
2019;380:1226-1234. Available at: 518. Paridaens RJ, Dirix LY, Beex LV, et al. Phase III study comparing
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30917258. exemestane with tamoxifen as first-line hormonal treatment of metastatic
breast cancer in postmenopausal women: the European Organisation for
512. Buzdar A, Douma J, Davidson N, et al. Phase III, multicenter, Research and Treatment of Cancer Breast Cancer Cooperative Group. J
double-blind, randomized study of letrozole, an aromatase inhibitor, for Clin Oncol 2008;26:4883-4890. Available at:
advanced breast cancer versus megestrol acetate. J Clin Oncol http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18794551.
2001;19:3357-3366. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11454883. 519. Vergote I, Bonneterre J, Thurlimann B, et al. Randomised study of
anastrozole versus tamoxifen as first-line therapy for advanced breast
513. Buzdar AU, Jonat W, Howell A, et al. Anastrozole versus megestrol cancer in postmenopausal women. Eur J Cancer 2000;36 Suppl 4:S84-
acetate in the treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced 85. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11056332.
breast carcinoma: results of a survival update based on a combined
analysis of data from two mature phase III trials. Arimidex Study Group. 520. Mauri D, Pavlidis N, Polyzos NP, Ioannidis JP. Survival with
aromatase inhibitors and inactivators versus standard hormonal therapy
MS-123
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
in advanced breast cancer: meta-analysis. J Natl Cancer Inst anastrozole in postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer
2006;98:1285-1291. Available at: progressing on prior endocrine therapy: results of a North American trial.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16985247. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:3386-3395. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12177098
521. Turner NC, Ro J, Andre F, et al. Palbociclib in hormone-receptor-
positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2015;373:209-219. 527. Ingle JN, Suman VJ, Rowland KM, et al. Fulvestrant in women with
Available at: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26030518/. advanced breast cancer after progression on prior aromatase inhibitor
therapy: North Central Cancer Treatment Group Trial N0032. J Clin
522. Cristofanilli M, Turner NC, Bondarenko I, et al. Fulvestrant plus Oncol 2006;24:1052-1056. Available at:
palbociclib versus fulvestrant plus placebo for treatment of hormone- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16505423.
receptor-positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer that
progressed on previous endocrine therapy (PALOMA-3): final analysis of 528. Chia S, Gradishar W, Mauriac L, et al. Double-blind, randomized
the multicentre, double-blind, phase 3 randomised controlled trial. Lancet placebo controlled trial of fulvestrant compared with exemestane after
Oncol 2016;17:425-439. Available at: prior nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor therapy in postmenopausal women
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26947331 with hormone receptor-positive, advanced breast cancer: results from
EFECT. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:1664-1670. Available at:
https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanonc/article/PIIS1470- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18316794.
2045(15)00613-0/fulltext.
529. Andre F, Ciruelos E, Rubovszky G, et al. Alpelisib for PIK3CA-
523. Sledge GW, Jr., Toi M, Neven P, et al. MONARCH 2: Abemaciclib mutated, hormone receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J
in combination with fulvestrant in women with HR+/HER2- advanced Med 2019;380:1929-1940. Available at:
breast cancer who had progressed while receiving endocrine therapy. J https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31091374.
Clin Oncol 2017;35:2875-2884. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28580882. 530. Bachelot T, Bourgier c, Cropet C, et al. TAMRAD: A GINECO
randomized phase II trial of everolimus in combination with tamoxifen
524. Sledge GW, Jr., Toi M, Neven P, et al. The Effect of Abemaciclib versus tamoxifen alone in patients (pts) with hormone-receptor positive,
Plus Fulvestrant on Overall Survival in Hormone Receptor-Positive, HER2 negative metastatic breast Cancer (MBC) with prior exposure to
ERBB2-Negative Breast Cancer That Progressed on Endocrine Therapy- aromatase inhibitors (AI) [abstract]. Cancer Res
MONARCH 2: A Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA Oncol 2019. Available 2010;70(Suppl):Abstract: S1-6 Available at:
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31563959. http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/70/24_Me
etingAbstracts/S1-6.
525. Howell A, Robertson JFR, Quaresma Albano J, et al. Fulvestrant,
formerly ICI 182,780, is as effective as anastrozole in postmenopausal 531. Chow L, Sun Y, Jassem J, et al. Phase 3 study of temsirolimus with
women with advanced breast cancer progressing after prior endocrine letrozole or letrozole alone in postmenopausal women with locally
treatment. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:3396-3403. Available at: advanced or metastatic breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res Treat.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12177099. 2006;100(Suppl 1):6091. Available at:
526. Osborne CK, Pippen J, Jones SE, et al. Double-blind, randomized 532. Yardley DA, Noguchi S, Pritchard KI, et al. Everolimus plus
trial comparing the efficacy and tolerability of fulvestrant versus exemestane in postmenopausal patients with HR(+) breast cancer:
MS-124
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
BOLERO-2 final progression-free survival analysis. Adv Ther acetate (MPA) in patients with advanced breast cancer. Eur J Cancer
2013;30:870-884. Available at: 1990;26:337-343. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24158787. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2141491.
533. Baselga J, Campone M, Piccart M, et al. Everolimus in 540. Buzdar A, Jonat W, Howell A, et al. Anastrozole, a potent and
postmenopausal hormone-receptor-positive advanced breast cancer. N selective aromatase inhibitor, versus megestrol acetate in
Engl J Med 2012;366:520-529. Available at: postmenopausal women with advanced breast cancer: results of
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22149876. overview analysis of two phase III trials. Arimidex Study Group. J Clin
Oncol 1996;14:2000-2011. Available at:
534. Pritchard KI, Burris HA, 3rd, Ito Y, et al. Safety and efficacy of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8683230.
everolimus with exemestane vs. exemestane alone in elderly patients
with HER2-negative, hormone receptor-positive breast cancer in 541. Ellis MJ, Gao F, Dehdashti F, et al. Lower-dose vs high-dose oral
BOLERO-2. Clin Breast Cancer 2013;13:421-432 e428. Available at: estradiol therapy of hormone receptor-positive, aromatase inhibitor-
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24267730. resistant advanced breast cancer: a phase 2 randomized study. JAMA
2009;302:774-780. Available at:
535. Dixon JM, Renshaw L, Langridge C, et al. Anastrozole and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19690310.
letrozole: an investigation and comparison of quality of life and
tolerability. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2011;125:741-749. Available at: 542. Dickler MN, Tolaney SM, Rugo HS, et al. MONARCH 1, a phase II
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20821047. study of abemaciclib, a CDK4 and CDK6 inhibitor, as a single agent, in
patients with refractory HR(+)/HER2(-) metastatic breast cancer. Clin
536. Rose C, Vtoraya O, Pluzanska A, et al. An open randomised trial of Cancer Res 2017;23:5218-5224. Available at:
second-line endocrine therapy in advanced breast cancer. comparison of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28533223.
the aromatase inhibitors letrozole and anastrozole. Eur J Cancer
2003;39:2318-2327. Available at: 543. Baselga J, Cortes J, Kim SB, et al. Pertuzumab plus trastuzumab
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14556923. plus docetaxel for metastatic breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2012;366:109-
119. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22149875.
537. Thurlimann B, Robertson JF, Nabholtz JM, et al. Efficacy of
tamoxifen following anastrozole ('Arimidex') compared with anastrozole 544. Swain S, Kim S-B, Cortes J, et al. Confirmatory overall survival
following tamoxifen as first-line treatment for advanced breast cancer in (OS) analysis of CLEOPATRA: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-
postmenopausal women. Eur J Cancer 2003;39:2310-2317. Available at: controlled Phase III study with pertuzumab (P), trastuzumab (T), and
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14556922. docetaxel (D) in patients (pts) with HER2-positive first-line (1L)
metastatic breast cancer (MBC). Cancer Research 2012;72:P5-18-26.
538. Abrams J, Aisner J, Cirrincione C, et al. Dose-response trial of Available at:
megestrol acetate in advanced breast cancer: cancer and leukemia http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/72/24_Me
group B phase III study 8741. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:64-73. Available at: etingAbstracts/P5-18-26.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10458219.
545. Ewer M, Baselga J, Clark E, et al. Cardiac tolerability of pertuzumab
539. Willemse PH, van der Ploeg E, Sleijfer DT, et al. A randomized plus trastuzumab plus docetaxel in patients with HER2-positive
comparison of megestrol acetate (MA) and medroxyprogesterone metastatic breast cancer in the CLEOPATRA study [abstract]. J Clin
MS-125
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
Oncol 2012;30(Suppl):Abstract 533. Available at: trastuzumab + taxane (HT) for first-line treatment of HER2-positive MBC:
http://www.asco.org/ASCOv2/Meetings/Abstracts?&vmview=abst_detail_ Primary results from the MARIANNE study. ASCO Meeting Abstracts
view&confID=114&abstractID=95049. 2015;33:507. Available at:
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/33/15_suppl/507.
546. Cortés J, Baselga J, Im Y, et al. Quality of life assessment in
CLEOPATRA, a phase III study combining pertuzumab with trastuzumab 552. Slamon DJ, Leyland-Jones B, Shak S, et al. Use of chemotherapy
and docetaxel in metastatic breast cancer [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2012 plus a monoclonal antibody against HER2 for metastatic breast cancer
30(Suppl) Abstract 598 Available at: that overexpresses HER2. N Engl J Med 2001;344:783-792. Available at:
http://www.asco.org/ASCOv2/Meetings/Abstracts?&vmview=abst_detail_ http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11248153.
view&confID=114&abstractID=95084.
553. Burstein HJ, Keshaviah A, Baron AD, et al. Trastuzumab plus
547. Bachelot T, Ciruelos E, Schneeweiss A, et al. Preliminary safety vinorelbine or taxane chemotherapy for HER2-overexpressing metastatic
and efficacy of first-line pertuzumab combined with trastuzumab and breast cancer: the trastuzumab and vinorelbine or taxane study. Cancer
taxane therapy for HER2-positive locally recurrent or metastatic breast 2007;110:965-972. Available at:
cancer (PERUSE). Ann Oncol 2019;30:766-773. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17614302.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30796821.
554. Robert N, Leyland-Jones B, Asmar L, et al. Randomized phase III
548. Datko F, D'Andrea G, Dickler M, et al. Phase II study of study of trastuzumab, paclitaxel, and carboplatin compared with
pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and weekly paclitaxel in patients with trastuzumab and paclitaxel in women with HER-2-overexpressing
metastatic HER2-overexpressing metastatic breast cancer [abstract]. metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2786-2792. Available at:
Cancer Research 2012;72:Abstract P5-18-20. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16782917.
http://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/cgi/content/meeting_abstract/72/24_Me
etingAbstracts/P5-18-20. 555. Seidman A, Berry DA, Cirrincione C, et al. Randomized phase III
trial of weekly compared with every-3-weeks paclitaxel for metastatic
549. Paclitaxel, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab in the treatment of breast cancer, with trastuzumab for all HER-2 overexpressors and
metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer (Clinical Trial ID: random assignment to trastuzumab or not in HER-2 nonoverexpressors:
NCT01276041). Available at: http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT01276041. final results of Cancer and Leukemia Group B protocol 9840. J Clin
. Oncol 2008;26:1642-1649. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18375893.
550. Perez E, Lopez-Vega J, Mastro L, et al. A combination of
pertuzumab, trastuzumab, and vinorelbine for first-line treatment of 556. Schaller G, Bangemann N, Weber J, et al. Efficacy and safety of
patients with HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer: An open-label, trastuzumab plus capecitabine in a German multicentre phase II study of
two-cohort, phase II study (VELVET) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol pre-treated metastatic breast cancer [abstract]. J Clin Oncol
2012;30(Suppl):Asbtract TPS653. Available at: 2005;23(Suppl 16):Abstract 717. Available at:
http://www.asco.org/ASCOv2/Meetings/Abstracts?&vmview=abst_detail_ http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/23/16_suppl/717.
view&confID=114&abstractID=93917.
557. Yamamoto D, Iwase S, Kitamura K, et al. A phase II study of
551. Ellis PA, Barrios CH, Eiermann W, et al. Phase III, randomized trastuzumab and capecitabine for patients with HER2-overexpressing
study of trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) {+/-} pertuzumab (P) vs metastatic breast cancer: Japan Breast Cancer Research Network
MS-126
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
(JBCRN) 00 Trial. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 2008;61:509-514. 564. Verma S, Miles D, Gianni L, et al. Trastuzumab emtansine for
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17516068. HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2012;367:1783-
1791. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23020162.
558. Seidman A, Hudis C, Pierri MK, et al. Cardiac dysfunction in the
trastuzumab clinical trials experience. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:1215-1221. 565. Modi S, Saura C, Yamashita T, et al. Trastuzumab deruxtecan in
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11870163. previously treated HER2-positive breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2019.
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31825192.
559. Bartsch R, Wenzel C, Altorjai G, et al. Capecitabine and
trastuzumab in heavily pretreated metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 566. Geyer C, Forster J, Lindquist D, et al. Lapatinib plus capecitabine
2007;25:3853-3858. Available at: for HER2-positive advanced breast cancer. N Engl J Med
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17679724. 2006;355:2733-2743. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17192538.
560. von Minckwitz G, du Bois A, Schmidt M, et al. Trastuzumab beyond
progression in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive 567. Cameron D, Casey M, Oliva C, et al. Lapatinib plus capecitabine in
advanced breast cancer: a german breast group 26/breast international women with HER-2-positive advanced breast cancer: final survival
group 03-05 study. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:1999-2006. Available at: analysis of a phase III randomized trial. Oncologist 2010;15:924-934.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19289619. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20736298.
561. Von Minckwitz G, Zielinski C, Maarteense E, et al. Capecitabine vs. 568. Blackwell KL, Burstein HJ, Storniolo AM, et al. Randomized study of
capecitabine + trastuzumab in patients with HER2-positive metastatic lapatinib alone or in combination with trastuzumab in women with ErbB2-
breast cancer progressing during trastuzumab treatment: The TBP phase positive, trastuzumab-refractory metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol
III study (GBG 26/BIG 3-05) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1124-1130. Available at:
2008;26(Suppl):Abstract 1025. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20124187.
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/26/15_suppl/1025.
569. Blackwell KL, Burstein HJ, Storniolo AM, et al. Overall survival
562. Baselga J, Gelmon KA, Verma S, et al. Phase II trial of pertuzumab benefit with lapatinib in combination with trastuzumab for patients with
and trastuzumab in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive metastatic breast
2-positive metastatic breast cancer that progressed during prior cancer: final results from the EGF104900 Study. J Clin Oncol
trastuzumab therapy. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1138-1144. Available at: 2012;30:2585-2592. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20124182. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22689807.
563. Cortes J, Fumoleau P, Bianchi GV, et al. Pertuzumab monotherapy 570. Freedman RA, Gelman RS, Anders CK, et al. TBCRC 022: A phase
after trastuzumab-based treatment and subsequent reintroduction of II trial of neratinib and capecitabine for patients with human epidermal
trastuzumab: activity and tolerability in patients with advanced human growth factor receptor 2-positive breast cancer and brain metastases. J
epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive breast cancer. J Clin Oncol Clin Oncol 2019;37:1081-1089. Available at:
2012;30:1594-1600. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30860945.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22393084.
571. Saura C, Oliveira M, Feng Y-H, et al. Neratinib + capecitabine
versus lapatinib + capecitabine in patients with HER2+ metastatic breast
MS-127
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
cancer previously treated with ≥ 2 HER2-directed regimens: Findings 2017;35:1004-1004. Available at:
from the multinational, randomized, phase III NALA trial. Journal of https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2017.35.15_suppl.1004.
Clinical Oncology 2019;37:1002-1002. Available at:
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2019.37.15_suppl.1002. 577. Malone KE, Daling JR, Doody DR, et al. Prevalence and predictors
of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in a population-based study of breast
572. Kaufman B, Mackey JR, Clemens MR, et al. Trastuzumab plus cancer in white and black American women ages 35 to 64 years. Cancer
anastrozole versus anastrozole alone for the treatment of Res 2006;66:8297-8308. Available at:
postmenopausal women with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2- https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16912212.
positive, hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer: results
from the randomized phase III TAnDEM study. J Clin Oncol 578. Kurian AW, Gong GD, John EM, et al. Performance of prediction
2009;27:5529-5537. Available at: models for BRCA mutation carriage in three racial/ethnic groups: findings
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19786670. from the Northern California Breast Cancer Family Registry. Cancer
Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2009;18:1084-1091. Available at:
573. Huober J, Fasching PA, Barsoum M, et al. Higher efficacy of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19336551.
letrozole in combination with trastuzumab compared to letrozole
monotherapy as first-line treatment in patients with HER2-positive, 579. Robson M, Im SA, Senkus E, et al. Olaparib for Metastatic Breast
hormone-receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer - results of the Cancer in Patients with a Germline BRCA Mutation. N Engl J Med
eLEcTRA trial. Breast 2012;21:27-33. Available at: 2017;0:null. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21862331. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28578601.
574. Johnston S, Pippen J, Pivot X, et al. Lapatinib combined with 580. Robson ME, Tung N, Conte P, et al. OlympiAD final overall survival
letrozole versus letrozole and placebo as first-line therapy for and tolerability results: Olaparib versus chemotherapy treatment of
postmenopausal hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer. J physician's choice in patients with a germline BRCA mutation and HER2-
Clin Oncol 2009;27:5538-5546. Available at: negative metastatic breast cancer. Ann Oncol 2019;30:558-566.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19786658. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30689707
575. Rimawi M, Ferrero JM, de la Haba-Rodriguez J, et al. First-line https://www.annalsofoncology.org/article/S0923-7534(19)31111-1/pdf.
trastuzumab plus an aromatase inhibitor, with or without pertuzumab, in
581. Litton JK, Rugo HS, Ettl J, et al. Talazoparib in patients with
human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive and hormone
advanced breast cancer and a germline BRCA mutation. N Engl J Med
receptor-positive metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer
2018;379:753-763. Available at:
(PERTAIN): A randomized, open-label phase II trial. J Clin Oncol
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30110579.
2018;36:2826-2835. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30106636.
582. Tutt A, Tovey H, Cheang MCU, et al. Carboplatin in BRCA1/2-
mutated and triple-negative breast cancer BRCAness subgroups: the
576. Gradishar WJ, Hegg R, Im S-A, et al. Phase III study of lapatinib (L)
TNT Trial. Nat Med 2018;24:628-637. Available at:
plus trastuzumab (T) and aromatase inhibitor (AI) vs T+AI vs L+AI in
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29713086.
postmenopausal women (PMW) with HER2+, HR+ metastatic breast
cancer (MBC): ALTERNATIVE. Journal of Clinical Oncology
MS-128
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
583. Albain KS, Nag S, Calderillo-Ruiz G, et al. Global phase III study of SCALP randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2017;317:596-605. Available at:
gemcitabine plus paclitaxel (GT) vs. paclitaxel (T) as frontline therapy for https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28196254.
metastatic breast cancer (MBC): First report of overall survival [abstract].
J Clin Oncol 2004;22:Abstract 510 Available at: 591. Rugo HS, Klein P, Melin SA, et al. Association between use of a
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/22/14_suppl/510. scalp cooling device and alopecia after chemotherapy for breast cancer.
JAMA 2017;317:606-614. Available at:
584. Carrick S, Parker S, Wilcken N, et al. Single agent versus
combination chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. Cochrane 592. Rugo HS, Melin SA, Voigt J. Scalp cooling with
Database Syst Rev 2005:CD003372. Available at: adjuvant/neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer and the risk of
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15846660. scalp metastases: systematic review and meta-analysis. Breast Cancer
Res Treat 2017;163:199-205. Available at:
585. O'Shaughnessy J, Miles D, Vukelja S, et al. Superior survival with https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28275922.
capecitabine plus docetaxel combination therapy in anthracycline-
pretreated patients with advanced breast cancer: phase III trial results. J 593. Stockler MR, Wilcken NJC, Coates AS. Chemotherapy for
Clin Oncol 2002;20:2812-2823. Available at: Advanced Breast Cancer – How Long Should it Continue? Breast Cancer
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12065558. Research and Treatment 2003;81:49-52. Available at:
https://doi.org/10.1023/A:1026316806601.
586. Sledge GW, Neuberg D, Bernardo P, et al. Phase III trial of
doxorubicin, paclitaxel, and the combination of doxorubicin and paclitaxel 594. Claessens AKM, Bos M, Lopez-Yurda M, et al. Intermittent versus
as front-line chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer: an intergroup continuous first-line treatment for HER2-negative metastatic breast
trial (E1193). J Clin Oncol 2003;21:588-592. Available at: cancer: the Stop & Go study of the Dutch Breast Cancer Research
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12586793. Group (BOOG). Breast Cancer Res Treat 2018;172:413-423. Available
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30121808.
587. Gennari A, Stockler M, Puntoni M, et al. Duration of chemotherapy
for metastatic breast cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of 595. Perez EA, Vogel CL, Irwin DH, et al. Multicenter phase II trial of
randomized clinical trials. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2144-2149. Available at: weekly paclitaxel in women with metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21464403. 2001;19:4216-4223. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11709565.
588. Giarratano T, Frezzini S, Zanocco M, et al. Use of scalp cooling
device to prevent alopecia for early breast cancer patients receiving 596. Seidman AD, Berry D, Cirrincione C, et al. Randomized phase III
chemotherapy: A prospective study. Breast J 2019. Available at: trial of weekly compared with every-3-weeks paclitaxel for metastatic
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31837103. breast cancer, with trastuzumab for all HER-2 overexpressors and
random assignment to trastuzumab or not in HER-2 nonoverexpressors:
589. Kruse M, Abraham J. Management of chemotherapy-induced final results of Cancer and Leukemia Group B protocol 9840. J Clin
alopecia with scalp cooling. J Oncol Pract 2018;14:149-154. Available at: Oncol 2008;26:1642-1649. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29529389. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18375893.
590. Nangia J, Wang T, Osborne C, et al. Effect of a scalp cooling device 597. Mauri D, Kamposioras K, Tsali L, et al. Overall survival benefit for
on alopecia in women undergoing chemotherapy for breast cancer: The weekly vs. three-weekly taxanes regimens in advanced breast cancer: A
MS-129
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
meta-analysis. Cancer Treat Rev 2010;36:69-74. Available at: Ann Oncol 2001;12:1247-1254. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19945225. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11697835.
598. Chan S, Friedrichs K, Noel D, et al. Prospective randomized trial of 605. Cortes J, O'Shaughnessy J, Loesch D, et al. Eribulin monotherapy
docetaxel versus doxorubicin in patients with metastatic breast cancer. J versus treatment of physician's choice in patients with metastatic breast
Clin Oncol 1999;17:2341-2354. Available at: cancer (EMBRACE): a phase 3 open-label randomised study. Lancet
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10561296. 2011;377:914-923. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21376385.
599. Gasparini G, Dal Fior S, Panizzoni GA, et al. Weekly epirubicin
versus doxorubicin as second line therapy in advanced breast cancer. A 606. Kaufman PA, Awada A, Twelves C, et al. Phase III open-label
randomized clinical trial. Am J Clin Oncol 1991;14:38-44. Available at: randomized study of eribulin mesylate versus capecitabine in patients
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1987737. with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer previously treated with
an anthracycline and a taxane. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:594-601. Available
600. Norris B, Pritchard KI, James K, et al. Phase III comparative study at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25605862.
of vinorelbine combined with doxorubicin versus doxorubicin alone in
disseminated metastatic/recurrent breast cancer: National Cancer 607. Vernieri C, Prisciandaro M, Milano M, et al. Single-Agent
Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group Study MA8. J Clin Oncol Gemcitabine vs. Carboplatin-Gemcitabine in Advanced Breast Cancer: A
2000;18:2385-2394. Available at: Retrospective Comparison of Efficacy and Safety Profiles. Clin Breast
Cancer 2019;19:e306-e318. Available at:
601. Andersson M, Daugaard S, von der Maase H, Mouridsen HT. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30635175.
Doxorubicin versus mitomycin versus doxorubicin plus mitomycin in
advanced breast cancer: a randomized study. Cancer Treat Rep 608. Jones S, Winer E, Vogel C, et al. Randomized comparison of
1986;70:1181-1186. Available at: vinorelbine and melphalan in anthracycline-refractory advanced breast
cancer. J Clin Oncol 1995;13:2567-2574. Available at:
602. O'Brien ME, Wigler N, Inbar M, et al. Reduced cardiotoxicity and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7595708.
comparable efficacy in a phase III trial of pegylated liposomal
doxorubicin HCl (CAELYX/Doxil) versus conventional doxorubicin for 609. Fumoleau P, Delgado FM, Delozier T, et al. Phase II trial of weekly
first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer. Ann Oncol 2004;15:440- intravenous vinorelbine in first-line advanced breast cancer
449. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14998846. chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 1993;11:1245-1252. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8315421.
603. Fumoleau P, Largillier R, Clippe C, et al. Multicentre, phase II study
evaluating capecitabine monotherapy in patients with anthracycline- and 610. Martin M, Ruiz A, Munoz M, et al. Gemcitabine plus vinorelbine
taxane-pretreated metastatic breast cancer. Eur J Cancer 2004;40:536- versus vinorelbine monotherapy in patients with metastatic breast cancer
542. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14962720. previously treated with anthracyclines and taxanes: final results of the
phase III Spanish Breast Cancer Research Group (GEICAM) trial. Lancet
604. Oshaughnessy JA, Blum J, Moiseyenko V, et al. Randomized, Oncol 2007;8:219-225. Available at:
open-label, phase II trial of oral capecitabine (Xeloda) vs. a reference https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17329192.
arm of intravenous CMF (cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and 5-
fluorouracil) as first-line therapy for advanced/metastatic breast cancer.
MS-130
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
611. Jones SE, Erban J, Overmoyer B, et al. Randomized phase III study 618. Perez EA, Lerzo G, Pivot X, et al. Efficacy and safety of ixabepilone
of docetaxel compared with paclitaxel in metastatic breast cancer. J Clin (BMS-247550) in a phase II study of patients with advanced breast
Oncol 2005;23:5542-5551. Available at: cancer resistant to an anthracycline, a taxane, and capecitabine. J Clin
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16110015. Oncol 2007;25:3407-3414. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17606974.
612. Ibrahim NK, Samuels B, Page R, et al. Multicenter phase II trial of
ABI-007, an albumin-bound paclitaxel, in women with metastatic breast 619. Nabholtz JM, Falkson C, Campos D, et al. Docetaxel and
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:6019-6026. Available at: doxorubicin compared with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide as first-
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16135470. line chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer: results of a randomized,
multicenter, phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:968-975. Available at:
613. Gradishar WJ, Tjulandin S, Davidson N, et al. Phase III trial of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12637459.
nanoparticle albumin-bound paclitaxel compared with polyethylated
castor oil-based paclitaxel in women with breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 620. Biganzoli L, Cufer T, Bruning P, et al. Doxorubicin and paclitaxel
2005;23:7794-7803. Available at: versus doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide as first-line chemotherapy in
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16172456. metastatic breast cancer: The European Organization for Research and
Treatment of Cancer 10961 Multicenter Phase III Trial. J Clin Oncol
614. Gradishar WJ, Krasnojon D, Cheporov S, et al. Significantly longer 2002;20:3114-3121. Available at:
progression-free survival with nab-paclitaxel compared with docetaxel as https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12118025.
first-line therapy for metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol
2009;27:3611-3619. Available at: 621. Langley RE, Carmichael J, Jones AL, et al. Phase III trial of
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19470941. epirubicin plus paclitaxel compared with epirubicin plus
cyclophosphamide as first-line chemotherapy for metastatic breast
615. Bastholt L, Dalmark M, Gjedde SB, et al. Dose-response cancer: United Kingdom National Cancer Research Institute trial AB01. J
relationship of epirubicin in the treatment of postmenopausal patients Clin Oncol 2005;23:8322-8330. Available at:
with metastatic breast cancer: a randomized study of epirubicin at four http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16293863.
different dose levels performed by the Danish Breast Cancer
Cooperative Group. J Clin Oncol 1996;14:1146-1155. Available at: 622. Albain KS, Nag SM, Calderillo-Ruiz G, et al. Gemcitabine plus
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8648369. paclitaxel versus paclitaxel monotherapy in patients with metastatic
breast cancer and prior anthracycline treatment. J Clin Oncol
616. Roche H, Yelle L, Cognetti F, et al. Phase II clinical trial of 2008;26:3950-3957. Available at:
ixabepilone (BMS-247550), an epothilone B analog, as first-line therapy http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18711184.
in patients with metastatic breast cancer previously treated with
anthracycline chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3415-3420. Available 623. Stockler MR, Harvey VJ, Francis PA, et al. Capecitabine versus
at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17606972. classical cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil as first-line
chemotherapy for advanced breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:4498-
617. Thomas E, Tabernero J, Fornier M, et al. Phase II clinical trial of 4504. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22025143.
ixabepilone (BMS-247550), an epothilone B analog, in patients with
taxane-resistant metastatic breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:3399- 624. O'Shaughnessy J, Schwartzberg L, Danso MA, et al. Phase III study
3406. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17606975. of iniparib plus gemcitabine and carboplatin versus gemcitabine and
MS-131
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
carboplatin in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer. J 631. Robert NJ, Dieras V, Glaspy J, et al. RIBBON-1: Randomized,
Clin Oncol 2014;32:3840-3847. Available at: double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase III trial of chemotherapy with or
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25349301. without bevacizumab (B) for first-line treatment of HER2-negative locally
recurrent or metastatic breast cancer (MBC) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol
625. Yardley DA, Brufsky A, Coleman RE, et al. Phase II/III weekly nab- 2009;27(Suppl):Abstract 1005. Available at:
paclitaxel plus gemcitabine or carboplatin versus gemcitabine/carboplatin http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/27/15S/1005.
as first-line treatment of patients with metastatic triple-negative breast
cancer (the tnAcity study): study protocol for a randomized controlled 632. Robert NJ, Dieras V, Glaspy J, et al. RIBBON-1: randomized,
trial. Trials 2015;16:575. Available at: double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase III trial of chemotherapy with or
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26673577. without bevacizumab for first-line treatment of human epidermal growth
factor receptor 2-negative, locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.
626. Nelli F, Moscetti L, Natoli G, et al. Gemcitabine and carboplatin for J Clin Oncol 2011;29:1252-1260. Available at:
pretreated metastatic breast cancer: the predictive value of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21383283.
immunohistochemically defined subtypes. Int J Clin Oncol 2013;18:343-
349. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22350024. 633. Mavroudis D, Papakotoulas P, Ardavanis A, et al. Randomized
phase III trial comparing docetaxel plus epirubicin versus docetaxel plus
627. Yardley DA, Coleman R, Conte P, et al. nab-Paclitaxel plus capecitabine as first-line treatment in women with advanced breast
carboplatin or gemcitabine versus gemcitabine plus carboplatin as first- cancer. Ann Oncol 2010;21:48-54. Available at:
line treatment of patients with triple-negative metastatic breast cancer: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19906761.
results from the tnAcity trial. Ann Oncol 2018;29:1763-1770. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29878040. 634. Stransky N, Cerami E, Schalm S, et al. The landscape of kinase
fusions in cancer. Nat Commun 2014;5:4846. Available at:
628. Perez EA, Hillman DW, Stella PJ, et al. A phase II study of
paclitaxel plus carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy for women with 635. Drilon A, Laetsch TW, Kummar S, et al. Efficacy of larotrectinib in
metastatic breast carcinoma. Cancer 2000;88:124-131. Available at: TRK fusion-positive cancers in adults and children. N Engl J Med
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10618614. 2018;378:731-739. Available at:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29466156.
629. Fountzilas G, Kalofonos HP, Dafni U, et al. Paclitaxel and epirubicin
versus paclitaxel and carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy in patients 636. Meric-Bernstam F, Shukla N, Peled N, et al. Abstract P6-20-02:
with advanced breast cancer: a phase III study conducted by the Hellenic Activity of larotrectinib, a highly selective inhibitor of tropomyosin
Cooperative Oncology Group. Ann Oncol 2004;15:1517-1526. Available receptor kinase, in TRK fusion breast cancers. Cancer Research
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15367413. 2019;79:P6-20-02. Available at:
630. Miller K, Wang M, Gralow J, et al. Paclitaxel plus bevacizumab 637. Drilon A. TRK inhibitors in TRK fusion-positive cancers. Ann Oncol
versus paclitaxel alone for metastatic breast cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;30:viii23-viii30. Available at:
2007;357:2666-2676. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31738426.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18160686.
638. Demetri GD, Paz-Ares L, Farago AF, et al. Efficacy and safety of
entrectinib in patients with NTRK fusion-positive tumours: Pooled
MS-132
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
analysis of STARTRK-2, STARTRK-1, and ALKA-372-001. Annals of 646. Sakorafas GH, Blanchard K, Sarr MG, Farley DR. Paget's disease
Oncology 2018;29. Available at: of the breast. Cancer Treat Rev 2001;27:9-18. Available at:
https://doi.org/10.1093/annonc/mdy483.003. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11237774.
639. Adams S, Loi S, Toppmeyer D, et al. Pembrolizumab monotherapy 647. Kollmorgen DR, Varanasi JS, Edge SB, Carson WE. Paget's
for previously untreated, PD-L1-positive, metastatic triple-negative breast disease of the breast: a 33-year experience. J Am Coll Surg
cancer: cohort B of the phase II KEYNOTE-086 study. Ann Oncol 1998;187:171-177. Available at:
2019;30:405-411. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9704964.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30475947.
648. Marcus E. The management of Paget's disease of the breast. Curr
640. Phan K, Charif M. Pembrolizumab for PD-L1-positive breast cancer Treat Options Oncol 2004;5:153-160. Available at:
refractory to chemotherapy. Am J Ther 2020;27:e622-e624. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14990209.
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31219807/.
649. Morrogh M, Morris EA, Liberman L, et al. MRI identifies otherwise
641. Nanda R, Chow LQ, Dees EC, et al. Pembrolizumab in Patients occult disease in select patients with Paget disease of the nipple. J Am
With Advanced Triple-Negative Breast Cancer: Phase Ib KEYNOTE-012 Coll Surg 2008;206:316-321. Available at:
Study. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:2460-2467. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18222386.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27138582.
650. Frei KA, Bonel HM, Pelte M-F, et al. Paget disease of the breast:
642. Alva AS, Mangat PK, Garrett-Mayer E, et al. Pembrolizumab (P) in findings at magnetic resonance imaging and histopathologic correlation.
patients (pts) with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) with high tumor Invest Radiol 2005;40:363-367. Available at:
mutational burden (HTMB): Results from the Targeted Agent and http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15905723.
Profiling Utilization Registry (TAPUR) Study. Journal of Clinical Oncology
2019;37:1014-1014. Available at: 651. Bijker N, Rutgers EJ, Duchateau L, et al. Breast-conserving therapy
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2019.37.15_suppl.1014. for Paget disease of the nipple: a prospective European Organization for
Research and Treatment of Cancer study of 61 patients. Cancer
643. Eisenhauer EA, Therasse P, Bogaerts J, et al. New response 2001;91:472-477. Available at:
evaluation criteria in solid tumours: revised RECIST guideline (version http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11169928.
1.1). Eur J Cancer 2009;45:228-247. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19097774. 652. Kawase K, Dimaio DJ, Tucker SL, et al. Paget's disease of the
breast: there is a role for breast-conserving therapy. Ann Surg Oncol
644. Miller AB, Hoogstraten B, Staquet M, Winkler A. Reporting results of 2005;12:391-397. Available at:
cancer treatment. Cancer 1981;47:207-214. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15915373.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7459811.
653. Marshall JK, Griffith KA, Haffty BG, et al. Conservative
645. Smerage JB, Barlow WE, Hortobagyi GN, et al. Circulating tumor management of Paget disease of the breast with radiotherapy: 10- and
cells and response to chemotherapy in metastatic breast cancer: SWOG 15-year results. Cancer 2003;97:2142-2149. Available at:
S0500. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:3483-3489. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12712465.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24888818.
MS-133
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
654. Pierce LJ, Haffty BG, Solin LJ, et al. The conservative management 663. Mangi AA, Smith BL, Gadd MA, et al. Surgical management of
of Paget's disease of the breast with radiotherapy. Cancer 1997;80:1065- phyllodes tumors. Arch Surg 1999;134:487-492. Available at:
1072. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9305706. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10323420.
655. Singh A, Sutton RJ, Baker CB, Sacks NP. Is mastectomy 664. Pandey M, Mathew A, Kattoor J, et al. Malignant phyllodes tumor.
overtreatment for Paget's disease of the nipple? Breast 1999;8:191-194. Breast J 2001;7:411-416. Available at:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14731439. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11843853.
656. Laronga C, Hasson D, Hoover S, et al. Paget's disease in the era of 665. Tse GMK, Lee CS, Kung FYL, et al. Hormonal receptors expression
sentinel lymph node biopsy. Am J Surg 2006;192:481-483. Available at: in epithelial cells of mammary phyllodes tumors correlates with
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16978954. pathologic grade of the tumor: a multicenter study of 143 cases. Am J
Clin Pathol 2002;118:522-526. Available at:
657. Sukumvanich P, Bentrem DJ, Cody HS, et al. The role of sentinel http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12375638.
lymph node biopsy in Paget's disease of the breast. Ann Surg Oncol
2007;14:1020-1023. Available at: 666. Smith LH, Dalrymple JL, Leiserowitz GS, et al. Obstetrical deliveries
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17195914. associated with maternal malignancy in California, 1992 through 1997.
Am J Obstet Gynecol 2001;184:1504-1512. Available at:
658. Telli ML, Horst KC, Guardino AE, et al. Phyllodes tumors of the http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11408874.
breast: natural history, diagnosis, and treatment. J Natl Compr Canc
Netw 2007;5:324-330. Available at: 667. Gwyn K, Theriault R. Breast cancer during pregnancy. Oncology
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17439760. (Williston Park) 2001;15:39-46. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11271981.
659. Anderson BO, Lawton TJ, Lehman CD, Moe RE. Phyllodes tumors.
In: Harris JR, Lippman ME, Morrow M, Osborne CK, eds. Diseases of the 668. Middleton LP, Amin M, Gwyn K, et al. Breast carcinoma in pregnant
Breast (ed 3rd). Philadelphia: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2004. women: assessment of clinicopathologic and immunohistochemical
features. Cancer 2003;98:1055-1060. Available at:
660. Salvadori B, Cusumano F, Del Bo R, et al. Surgical treatment of http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12942575.
phyllodes tumors of the breast. Cancer 1989;63:2532-2536. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2541890. 669. Yang WT, Dryden MJ, Gwyn K, et al. Imaging of breast cancer
diagnosed and treated with chemotherapy during pregnancy. Radiology
661. Birch JM, Alston RD, McNally RJ, et al. Relative frequency and 2006;239:52-60. Available at:
morphology of cancers in carriers of germline TP53 mutations. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16484353.
Oncogene 2001;20:4621-4628. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11498785. 670. Kuerer HM, Gwyn K, Ames FC, Theriault RL. Conservative surgery
and chemotherapy for breast carcinoma during pregnancy. Surgery
662. Chaney AW, Pollack A, McNeese MD, et al. Primary treatment of 2002;131:108-110. Available at:
cystosarcoma phyllodes of the breast. Cancer 2000;89:1502-1511. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11812971.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11013364.
MS-134
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
671. Annane K, Bellocq JP, Brettes JP, Mathelin C. Infiltrative breast 679. Johnson PH, Gwyn K, Gordon N, et al. The treatment of pregnant
cancer during pregnancy and conservative surgery. Fetal Diagn Ther women with breast cancer and the outcomes of the children exposed to
2005;20:442-444. Available at: chemotherapy in utero [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2005;23(Suppl):Abstract
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16113569. 540. Available at:
http://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/23/16_suppl/540.
672. Khera SY, Kiluk JV, Hasson DM, et al. Pregnancy-associated
breast cancer patients can safely undergo lymphatic mapping. Breast J 680. Doll DC, Ringenberg QS, Yarbro JW. Antineoplastic agents and
2008;14:250-254. Available at: pregnancy. Semin Oncol 1989;16:337-346. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18476883. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2678485.
673. Mondi MM, Cuenca RE, Ollila DW, et al. Sentinel lymph node 681. Ebert U, Loffler H, Kirch W. Cytotoxic therapy and pregnancy.
biopsy during pregnancy: initial clinical experience. Ann Surg Oncol Pharmacol Ther 1997;74:207-220. Available at:
2007;14:218-221. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9336023.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17066225.
682. Hahn KME, Johnson PH, Gordon N, et al. Treatment of pregnant
674. Filippakis GM, Zografos G. Contraindications of sentinel lymph breast cancer patients and outcomes of children exposed to
node biopsy: are there any really? World J Surg Oncol 2007;5:10. chemotherapy in utero. Cancer 2006;107:1219-1226. Available at:
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17261174. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16894524.
675. Gentilini O, Cremonesi M, Trifiro G, et al. Safety of sentinel node 683. Gainford MC, Clemons M. Breast cancer in pregnancy: are taxanes
biopsy in pregnant patients with breast cancer. Ann Oncol 2004;15:1348- safe? Clinical Oncol (R Coll Radiol) 2006;18:159. Available at:
1351. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15319240. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16523825.
676. Keleher A, Wendt R, Delpassand E, et al. The safety of lymphatic 684. Garcia-Manero M, Royo MP, Espinos J, et al. Pregnancy associated
mapping in pregnant breast cancer patients using Tc-99m sulfur colloid. breast cancer. Eur J Surg Oncol 2009;35:215-218. Available at:
Breast J 2004;10:492-495. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18550321.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15569204.
685. Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Walters RS, Carpenter RJ, et al. Paclitaxel
677. Pandit-Taskar N, Dauer LT, Montgomery L, et al. Organ and fetal chemotherapy in a pregnant patient with bilateral breast cancer. Clin
absorbed dose estimates from 99mTc-sulfur colloid lymphoscintigraphy Breast Cancer 2004;5:317-319. Available at:
and sentinel node localization in breast cancer patients. J Nucl Med http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15507181.
2006;47:1202-1208. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16818956. 686. Mir O, Berveiller P, Ropert S, et al. Emerging therapeutic options for
breast cancer chemotherapy during pregnancy. Ann Oncol 2008;19:607-
678. Germann N, Goffinet F, Goldwasser F. Anthracyclines during 613. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17921242.
pregnancy: embryo-fetal outcome in 160 patients. Ann Oncol
2004;15:146-150. Available at: 687. Bader AA, Schlembach D, Tamussino KF, et al. Anhydramnios
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14679135. associated with administration of trastuzumab and paclitaxel for
MS-135
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
metastatic breast cancer during pregnancy. Lancet Oncol 2007;8:79-81. 696. Dawood, S, Cristofanilli M. What progress have we made in
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17196514. managing inflammatory breast cancer? Oncology 2007;21:673-679.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17564325
688. Fanale MA, Uyei AR, Theriault RL, et al. Treatment of metastatic
breast cancer with trastuzumab and vinorelbine during pregnancy. Clin 697. Jaiyesimi IA, Buzdar AU, Hortobagyi G. Inflammatory breast cancer:
Breast Cancer 2005;6:354-356. Available at: a review. J Clin Oncol 1992;10:1014-1024. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16277887. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1588366.
689. Pant S, Landon MB, Blumenfeld M, et al. Treatment of breast 698. Bertucci F, Finetti P, Rougemont J, et al. Gene expression profiling
cancer with trastuzumab during pregnancy. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:1567- identifies molecular subtypes of inflammatory breast cancer. Cancer Res
1569. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18349415. 2005;65:2170-2178. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15781628.
690. Sekar R, Stone PR. Trastuzumab use for metastatic breast cancer
in pregnancy. Obstet Gynecol 2007;110:507-510. Available at: 699. Van Laere SJ, Van den Eynden GG, Van der Auwera I, et al.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17666645. Identification of cell-of-origin breast tumor subtypes in inflammatory
breast cancer by gene expression profiling. Breast Cancer Res Treat
691. Shrim A, Garcia-Bournissen F, Maxwell C, et al. Favorable 2006;95:243-255. Available at:
pregnancy outcome following Trastuzumab (Herceptin) use during http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16261404.
pregnancy--Case report and updated literature review. Reprod Toxicol
2007;23:611-613. Available at: 700. Zell JA, Tsang WY, Taylor TH, et al. Prognostic impact of human
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17399946. epidermal growth factor-like receptor 2 and hormone receptor status in
inflammatory breast cancer (IBC): analysis of 2,014 IBC patient cases
692. Waterston AM, Graham J. Effect of adjuvant trastuzumab on from the California Cancer Registry. Breast Cancer Res 2009;11:R9.
pregnancy. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:321-322. Available at: Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19228416.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16401684.
701. Parton M, Dowsett M, Ashley S, et al. High incidence of HER-2
693. Watson WJ. Herceptin (trastuzumab) therapy during pregnancy: positivity in inflammatory breast cancer. Breast 2004;13:97-103.
association with reversible anhydramnios. Obstet Gynecol Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15019688.
2005;105:642-643. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15738038. 702. Edge SB, Byrd DR, Compton CC, et al., eds. AJCC Cancer Staging
Manual, 7th Edition. New York: Springer; 2010.
694. Witzel ID, Müller V, Harps E, et al. Trastuzumab in pregnancy
associated with poor fetal outcome. Ann Oncol 2008;19:191-192. 703. Haagensen CD. Inflammatory Carcinoma. Diseases of the Breast.
Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18084047. Philadelphia: WB Saunders; 1956:488-498.
695. Kelly H, Graham M, Humes E, et al. Delivery of a healthy baby after 704. Cristofanilli M, Valero V, Buzdar AU, et al. Inflammatory breast
first-trimester maternal exposure to lapatinib. Clin Breast Cancer cancer (IBC) and patterns of recurrence: understanding the biology of a
2006;7:339-341. Available at: unique disease. Cancer 2007;110:1436-1444. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17092403. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17694554.
MS-136
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
705. Panades M, Olivotto IA, Speers CH, et al. Evolving treatment 712. Chia S, Swain SM, Byrd DR, Mankoff DA. Locally advanced and
strategies for inflammatory breast cancer: a population-based survival inflammatory breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:786-790. Available at:
analysis. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:1941-1950. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18258987.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15774787.
713. Fleming RY, Asmar L, Buzdar AU, et al. Effectiveness of
706. Dawood S, Ueno NT, Valero V, et al. Differences in survival among mastectomy by response to induction chemotherapy for control in
women with stage III inflammatory and noninflammatory locally inflammatory breast carcinoma. Ann Surg Oncol 1997;4:452-461.
advanced breast cancer appear early: a large population-based study. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9309333.
Cancer 2011;117:1819-1826. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21509759. 714. Ueno NT, Buzdar AU, Singletary SE, et al. Combined-modality
treatment of inflammatory breast carcinoma: twenty years of experience
707. Hance KW, Anderson WF, Devesa SS, et al. Trends in inflammatory at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol
breast carcinoma incidence and survival: the surveillance, epidemiology, 1997;40:321-329. Available at:
and end results program at the National Cancer Institute. J Natl Cancer http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9225950.
Inst 2005;97:966-975. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15998949. 715. Cristofanilli M, Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Buzdar AU, et al. Paclitaxel
improves the prognosis in estrogen receptor negative inflammatory
708. Bleicher RJ, Morrow M. Inflammatory breast cancer: Still poorly breast cancer: the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center experience. Clin
characterized. The Dawood/Cristofanilli article reviewed. Oncology Breast Cancer 2004;4:415-419. Available at:
2007;21:679-680. Available at: http://www.cancernetwork.com/breast- http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15023242.
cancer/content/article/10165/61508.
716. Kim T, Lau J, Erban J. Lack of uniform diagnostic criteria for
709. Nguyen DM, Sam K, Tsimelzon A, et al. Molecular heterogeneity of inflammatory breast cancer limits interpretation of treatment outcomes: a
inflammatory breast cancer: a hyperproliferative phenotype. Clin Cancer systematic review. Clin Breast Cancer 2006;7:386-395. Available at:
Res 2006;12:5047-5054. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17239263.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16951220.
717. Hennessy BT, Gonzalez-Angulo AM, Hortobagyi GN, et al. Disease-
710. Wolff AC, Hammond MEH, Schwartz JN, et al. American Society of free and overall survival after pathologic complete disease remission of
Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists guideline cytologically proven inflammatory breast carcinoma axillary lymph node
recommendations for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 testing metastases after primary systemic chemotherapy. Cancer
in breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:118-145. Available at: 2006;106:1000-1006. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17159189. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16444747.
711. Carkaci S, Macapinlac HA, Cristofanilli M, et al. Retrospective study 718. Dawood S, Broglio K, Gong Y, et al. Prognostic significance of
of 18F-FDG PET/CT in the diagnosis of inflammatory breast cancer: HER-2 status in women with inflammatory breast cancer. Cancer
preliminary data. J Nucl Med 2009;50:231-238. Available at: 2008;112:1905-1911. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19164229. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18300243.
MS-137
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
719. Hurley J, Doliny P, Reis I, et al. Docetaxel, cisplatin, and 725. Kell MR, Morrow M. Surgical aspects of inflammatory breast cancer.
trastuzumab as primary systemic therapy for human epidermal growth Breast Dis 2005;22:67-73. Available at:
factor receptor 2-positive locally advanced breast cancer. J Clin Oncol http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16735788.
2006;24:1831-1838. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16549824. 726. Stearns V, Ewing CA, Slack R, et al. Sentinel lymphadenectomy
after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer may reliably represent
720. Burstein HJ, Harris LN, Gelman R, et al. Preoperative therapy with the axilla except for inflammatory breast cancer. Ann Surg Oncol
trastuzumab and paclitaxel followed by sequential adjuvant 2002;9:235-242. Available at:
doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide for HER2 overexpressing stage II or III http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11923129.
breast cancer: a pilot study. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:46-53. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12506169. 727. Motwani SB, Strom EA, Schechter NR, et al. The impact of
immediate breast reconstruction on the technical delivery of
721. Limentani SA, Brufsky AM, Erban JK, et al. Phase II study of postmastectomy radiotherapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006;66:76-
neoadjuvant docetaxel, vinorelbine, and trastuzumab followed by surgery 82. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16765534.
and adjuvant doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide in women with human
epidermal growth factor receptor 2-overexpressing locally advanced 728. Blanchard DK, Shetty PB, Hilsenbeck SG, Elledge RM. Association
breast cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:1232-1238. Available at: of surgery with improved survival in stage IV breast cancer patients. Ann
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17296975. Surg 2008;247:732-738. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18438108.
722. Van Pelt AE, Mohsin S, Elledge RM, et al. Neoadjuvant
trastuzumab and docetaxel in breast cancer: preliminary results. Clin 729. Olson JA, Morris EA, Van Zee KJ, et al. Magnetic resonance
Breast Cancer 2003;4:348-353. Available at: imaging facilitates breast conservation for occult breast cancer. Ann Surg
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14715110. Oncol 2000;7:411-415. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10894136.
723. Boussen H, Cristofanilli M, Zaks T, et al. Phase II study to evaluate
the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant lapatinib plus paclitaxel in patients 730. Varadarajan R, Edge SB, Yu J, et al. Prognosis of occult breast
with inflammatory breast cancer. Journal of Clinical Oncology carcinoma presenting as isolated axillary nodal metastasis. Oncology
2010;28:3248-3255. Available at: 2006;71:456-459. Available at:
http://jco.ascopubs.org/content/28/20/3248.abstract. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17690561.
724. Gianni L, Pienkowski T, Im YH, et al. Efficacy and safety of 731. Schelfout K, Kersschot E, Van Goethem M, et al. Breast MR
neoadjuvant pertuzumab and trastuzumab in women with locally imaging in a patient with unilateral axillary lymphadenopathy and
advanced, inflammatory, or early HER2-positive breast cancer unknown primary malignancy. Eur Radiol 2003;13:2128-2132. Available
(NeoSphere): a randomised multicentre, open-label, phase 2 trial. Lancet at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12928964.
Oncol 2012;13:25-32. Available at:
732. Bhatia SK, Saclarides TJ, Witt TR, et al. Hormone receptor studies
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22153890.
in axillary metastases from occult breast cancers. Cancer 1987;59:1170-
1172. Available at: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3815292.
MS-138
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
PLEASE NOTE that use of this NCCN Content is governed by the End-User License Agreement, and you MAY NOT distribute this Content or use it with any artificial intelligence model or tool.
Printed by Sarah Theoulle on 8/11/2025 9:02:52 AM. Copyright © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 4.2025
Breast Cancer
733. Bleicher RJ, Morrow M. MRI and breast cancer: role in detection,
diagnosis, and staging. Oncology (Williston Park) 2007;21:1521-1528,
1530; discussion 1530, 1532-1523. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18077995.
734. Stomper PC, Waddell BE, Edge SB, Klippenstein DL. Breast MRI in
the evaluation of patients with occult primary breast carcinoma. Breast J
1999;5:230-234. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11348292.
735. Buchanan CL, Morris EA, Dorn PL, et al. Utility of breast magnetic
resonance imaging in patients with occult primary breast cancer. Ann
Surg Oncol 2005;12:1045-1053. Available at:
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16244803.
MS-139
Version 4.2025 © 2025 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.