Source: docs/uploads/s41572-019-0111-2.pdf
Extracted: 2025-08-11T13:09:11.176389Z
---

See discussions, stats, and author profiles for this publication at: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/335984408
Breast cancer
Article in Nature Reviews Disease Primers · December 2019
DOI: 10.1038/s41572-019-0111-2
CITATIONS READS
2,365 128,544
9 authors, including:
Frédérique Penault-Llorca Javier Cortés
Centre Jean Perrin Vall d’Hebron Institute of Oncology
751 PUBLICATIONS 47,003 CITATIONS 229 PUBLICATIONS 17,147 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE SEE PROFILE
Michael Gnant Philip Poortmans
Medical University of Vienna Iridium Netwerk
961 PUBLICATIONS 57,444 CITATIONS 746 PUBLICATIONS 40,035 CITATIONS
SEE PROFILE SEE PROFILE
All content following this page was uploaded by Michael Gnant on 23 February 2020.
The user has requested enhancement of the downloaded file.
PRIMER
Breast cancer
Nadia Harbeck1*, Frédérique Penault- Llorca2, Javier Cortes3,4, Michael Gnant5,
Nehmat Houssami6, Philip Poortmans7,8, Kathryn Ruddy9, Janice Tsang10 and
Fatima Cardoso11
Abstract | Breast cancer is the most frequent malignancy in women worldwide and is curable
in ~70–80% of patients with early-s tage, non-m etastatic disease. Advanced breast cancer
with distant organ metastases is considered incurable with currently available therapies.
On the molecular level, breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease; molecular features include
activation of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2, encoded by ERBB2), activation
of hormone receptors (oestrogen receptor and progesterone receptor) and/or BRCA mutations.
Treatment strategies differ according to molecular subtype. Management of breast cancer is
multidisciplinary ; it includes locoregional (surgery and radiation therapy) and systemic therapy
approaches. Systemic therapies include endocrine therapy for hormone receptor-p ositive
disease, chemotherapy , anti-H ER2 therapy for HER2-positive disease, bone stabilizing agents,
poly(ADP-r ibose) polymerase inhibitors for BRCA mutation carriers and, quite recently,
immunotherapy. Future therapeutic concepts in breast cancer aim at individualization of
therapy as well as at treatment de-e scalation and escalation based on tumour biology and
early therapy response. Next to further treatment innovations, equal worldwide access to
therapeutic advances remains the global challenge in breast cancer care for the future.
Breast cancer is the most frequent malignancy in women alterations that drive breast carcinogenesis are many,
and is a heterogeneous disease on the molecular level. and several classifications have been developed to
Over the past 10–15 years, treatment concepts have group tumours accordingly. The intrinsic classification
evolved to take this heterogeneity into account, with of Perou and Sorlie1, reported in 2000, distinguished
emphasis being placed on more biologically- directed four subtypes of breast cancer: luminal A and luminal B
therapies and treatment de- escalation to reduce the (expressing the oestrogen receptor (ER)), basal-l ike and
adverse effects of treatment. Despite the inherent human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-
molecular heterogeneity, which is a driving principle enriched (without ER expression). This classification
of modern- day treatments, some features such as the shifted clinical management of breast cancer from being
impact of locoregional tumour burden or metastatic based on tumour burden to biology-c entred approaches.
patterns are shared and influence therapy. Early breast Currently, clinical practice typically uses a surrogate
cancer — that is, cancer that is contained in the breast or classification of five subtypes on the basis of histological
that has only spread to the axillary lymph nodes — is and molecular characteristics (Fig. 1). Tumours express-
considered curable. Improvements in multimodal ther- ing ER and/or progesterone receptor (PR) are consid-
apy have led to increasing chances for cure in ~70–80% ered hormone receptor-p ositive breast cancers, whereas
of patients. By contrast, advanced (metastatic) disease is tumours that do not express ER, PR or HER2 are triple-
not considered curable using currently available thera- negative breast cancer (TNBC). Importantly, treat-
peutic options. However, advanced breast cancer is a ment by a specialized multidisciplinary team improves
treatable disease, for which the main goals of therapy survival and quality of life for patients with early and
are to prolong survival and control symptoms with low metastatic breast cancer, as does treatment according
treatment- associated toxicity to maintain or improve to high-q uality guidelines. Establishment of specialized
quality of life (that is, improved quality- adjusted life breast cancer centres is a major priority worldwide, and
expectancy). is supported by the European Parliament2.
The two major pillars of breast cancer management are As breast cancer is a global problem, major empha-
*e- mail: nadia.harbeck@
locoregional treatment and systemic therapy; the histo- sis needs to be put on diminishing worldwide dispar-
med.uni- muenchen.de
logical and molecular characteristics of breast cancer ities in access to diagnosis, multimodal treatment and
https://doi.org/10.1038/
s41572-019-0111-2 largely influence treatment decisions. The molecular novel drugs. In this Primer, we provide state-o f-the-a rt
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 1
0123456789();
Primer
information on the biology, diagnosis and treatment many low- and middle-i ncome countries, such as those
of early and metastatic breast cancer, emphasizing the in sub- Saharan Africa10 and developing Asian coun-
necessity for multidisciplinary management of this tries11, despite their lower incidence, due to delayed
heterogeneous disease. presentation, late stage at diagnosis and limited access
to treatment. Several studies have also shown that
Epidemiology breast cancer presents earlier in Asian women (typically
Demographics, incidence and mortality 40–50 years of age) than in their western counterparts
In 2018, an estimated 2.1 million women were newly (typically 60–70 years of age)12–17. In addition, patients
diagnosed with breast cancer, approximately one in developing countries who are diagnosed with breast
new case diagnosed every 18 seconds; additionally, cancer are ~10 years younger than those in developed
626,679 women with breast cancer died3. The global countries. The proportion of young patients (<35 years
incidence of breast cancer has been rising with annual of age) varies from ~10% in developed countries to up to
increases of 3.1%, beginning with 641,000 cases in 1980 25% in developing Asian countries15. The biology of the
and increasing to >1.6 million in 2010 (reF.4); this trend tumour also varies by ethnicity, which has implications
is likely to continue. Indeed, the global cancer burden in for the difference in mortality17. For example, African
women is increasing in countries regardless of income and African-A merican women had the highest rates of
level, owing to popu lation growth and an ageing popu- TNBC compared with any other ethnic group. They also
lation. The female popu lation accounts for 49.5% of the had higher rates of metastatic disease, and the highest
global popu lation, and they form a larger proportion rates of poorly differentiated or undifferentiated grade
of the popu lation >60 years of age. Furthermore, the among all subtypes, all of which are associated with
epidemio logy of advanced breast cancer is a research lower survival18. Additionally, metastatic breast cancer
priority as, in most countries, the number of patients represents 9% of diagnoses among non-H ispanic black
with advanced disease is unknown; cancer registries women compared with 5–6% of diagnoses in other
mostly track diagnosis and deaths but not relapses. One ethnic groups. Regarding the survival gains in patients
study estimated that, in 2017, ~160,000 patients live with with advanced disease during the years 1975–2013, the
advanced-s tage breast cancer in the United States alone5. 5-year cause- specific survival of non- Hispanic white
The death rates also vary among subtypes of breast women was higher than that of other ethnic groups,
cancer with HER2-positive disease associated with a particularly non-H ispanic black women (19–37% com-
higher death rate, followed by the TNBC, luminal A and pared with 16–26%)19,20. This pattern is multifactorial
luminal B subtypes6. and involves genetic predisposition, lifestyle and other
Incidence varies worldwide, with higher incidence in environmental factors.
high-i ncome regions (92 per 100,000 in North America)
than in lower income regions (27 per 100,000 in mid- Genetic predisposition
dle Africa and eastern Asia)7,8. These patterns reflect Approximately 10% of breast cancers are inherited and
both the risk factors and the availability and utility of associated with a family history21, although this varies
mammography (and, therefore, detected breast cancers); frequently by ethnicity and across countries in the con-
the highest breast cancer incidence is in North America, text of early- onset, bilateral and/or TNBC. Individuals
Australia, New Zealand and northern and western with a first- degree relative who had breast cancer have
Europe. Furthermore, in high-i ncome countries, breast an elevated relative risk (RR) of 3 of early- onset breast
cancer is often diagnosed at an early stage and the cancer (before 35 years of age)22. However, a family
prognosis is usually good. However, in low- and middle- history of breast cancer is associated with an ‘erratic’
income countries, breast cancer is often diagnosed at a individual risk of breast cancer composed of different
later stage and is, accordingly, associated with poorer variables, including the size of the family and environ-
survival9 — a fact that is reflected in the mortality mental factors. To determine the family’s risk, models
statistics. Breast cancer mortality is usually higher in such as the family history score have been developed23.
Mutations in two high-p enetrance tumour suppres-
sor genes, BRCA1 (17q21) and BRCA2 (13q13), whose
Author addresses proteins are involved in DNA repair through homolo-
1LMU Munich, University Hospital, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, gous repair24, show an autosomal-d ominant inheritance
Breast Center and Comprehensive Cancer Center (CCLMU), Munich, Germany. pattern (loss of function > missense). BRCA1 and BRCA2
2Department of Pathology and Biopathology, Jean Perrin Comprehensive Cancer Centre, mutations are associated with an average cumulative
UMR INSERM 1240, University Clermont Auvergne, Clermont-F errand, France. risk of developing breast cancer by the age of 80 years
3IOB Institute of Oncology, Quironsalud Group, Madrid and Barcelona, Spain. of 72% and 69%, respectively25; the relative risk of breast
4Vall d´Hebron Institute of Oncology, Barcelona, Spain. cancer in men (Box 1) harbouring BRCA2 mutations is
5Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria. 6%26,27. More than 2,000 BRCA gene alterations have
6Sydney School of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Health, University of Sydney,
been described (mutations and large rearrangements),
Sydney, Australia.
but only few have been found repeatedly in unrelated
7Department of Radiation Oncology, Institut Curie, Paris, France.
families, for example, founder mutations in Ashkenazi
8Université PSL, Paris, France.
9Department of Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. Jewish families (BRCA1 185delAG or BRCA2 6174delT)
10Hong Kong Breast Oncology Group, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. or Icelandic families (BRCA2 999del5). The prevalence
11Breast Unit, Champalimaud Clinical Center/Champalimaud Foundation, Lisbon, of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations varies between ethnic
Portugal. groups, being lower in the Asian group (0.5%) and higher
2 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
in the Ashkenazi group (10.2%) in a US nationwide screened — beyond BRCA1 and BRCA2 — to determine
study28. Germline BRCA testing will now be performed the inherited breast cancer risk34–36, and include ATM,
as a companion diagnostic in patients with metastatic CHEK2, PALB2, PTEN, STK11 and TP53 (reF.37).
breast cancer29 given the availability of poly(ADP-
ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors, which prolong Lifestyle and other environmental factors
progression- free survival (PFS) and improve quality of Breast cancer epidemiology pattern differences across
life30,31, as a targeted therapy for BRCA mutation carriers countries are further compounded by cultural factors,
in HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer32,33. lifestyle factors and national awareness campaigns. The
Several syndromes related to germline mutations of increase in breast cancer incidence between 1980 and
genes involved in DNA repair and maintaining genomic the late 1990s is likely due to changes in reproductive
integrity have been shown to be linked to, to a lesser factors, with advanced maternal age for first pregnancy,
degree, the inherited breast cancer risk (TaBle 1). Next- and an increase in awareness and mammography screen-
generation sequencing has enabled panels of genes to be ing38,39. Several explanations have been offered as to why
Adipose tissue
Histological subtypes
Fatty connective tissue
Rib
Preinvasive Invasive
Muscle Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) Ductal carcinoma no special
Intercostal muscle • Spreads through ducts and type (NST)
Lobule Lumen distorts ductal architecture; • Develops from DCIS; fibrous
Duct can progress to invasive response to produce a mass;
Luminal cancer; unilateral metastasizes via lymphatics
epithelial Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and blood
cell
• Does not distort ductal Lobular carcinoma (ILC)
architecture; can be • Isolated tumor cells (CDH1
Nipple bilateral mutations) minimal fibrous
• Risk factor rather than response; metastasizes
Collecting duct Basal precursor preferentially via viscera
Areola myoepithelial cell
Basal-like Claudin- HER2-enriched Luminal B Luminal A
TP53 low HER2 amplification; PI3KCA mutations (40%); ESR1 Activation of ERS1,
mutations; Largely GRB7 amplification; mutations (30–40%)a; ERBB2 and GATA3, FOXA1, XBP1;
genetic triple- PIK3CA mutations; ERBB3 mutations; NST, micropapillary NST, tubular cribriform
Intrinsic instability; negative; TOPO2 and/or MYC and atypical lobular histology and classic lobular
subtypes BRCA metaplastic amplification; NST, histology
(PAM50) mutations; pleiomorphic lobular
medullary-like and micropapillary
histology histology
poorly
differentiatied Normal-likeb
Triple-negative HER2-enriched Luminal B-like HER2+ Luminal B-like HER2– Luminal A-like
ER–, PR–, HER2–; high (non-luminal) ER+ but lower ER ER+ but ER and PR Strongly ER+ and PR+;
grade; high Ki67 index; ER–, PR–, HER2+; and PR expression expression lower than HER2–; low proliferation
NST histology; special high grade; high Ki67 than luminal A-like; in luminal A-like; HER2–; rates; typically low
Surrogate
type histology index; NST histology; HER2+; higher grade; higher grade; high Ki67 grade; low Ki67 index;
intrinsic
(metaplastic, adenoid aggressive disease high Ki67 index; NST index; high-risk GES; low-risk GES; NST,
subtypes
cystic, medullary-like but responds to and pleiomorphic; NST, micropapillary and tubular cribriform
and secretory); poor targeted therapies; responds to targeted lobular pleiomorphic and classic lobular
prognosis except for intermediate therapies; intermediate histology; intermediate histology; good
some special types prognosis prognosis prognosis prognosis
10–15% 13–15% 10–20% 60–70%
Proliferation
High grade
Basal-like genes ER expression
Low grade
HER2 expression
Fig. 1 | Breast cancer. All breast cancers arise in the terminal duct lobular units intrinsic subtypes are typically used clinically and are based on histology and
(the functional unit of the breast) of the collecting duct. The histological and immunohistochemistry expression of key proteins: oestrogen receptor (ER),
molecular characteristics have important implications for therapy, and several progesterone receptor (PR), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
classifications on the basis of molecular and histological characteristics have (HER2) and the proliferation marker Ki67. Tumours expressing ER and/or PR
been developed. The histological subtypes described here (top right) are the are termed ‘hormone receptor-p ositive’; tumours not expressing ER, PR and
most frequent subtypes of breast cancer; ductal carcinoma (now referred to HER2 are called ‘triple- negative’. The relative placement of the boxes
as ‘no special type’ (NST)) and lobular carcinoma are the invasive lesions; their align with the characteristics (for example, proliferation and grade) in
preinvasive counterparts are ductal carcinoma in situ and lobular carcinoma green. −, negative; +, positive. GES, gene expression signature. aESR1
in situ (or lobular neoplasia), respectively. The intrinsic subtypes of Perou and mutations induced by aromatase inhibitor targeted therapy. bArtefact;
Sorlie1 are based on a 50-gene expression signature (PAM50)321. The surrogate expression of normal breast components due to low tumour cellularity.
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 3
0123456789();
Primer
Box 1 | Breast cancer in men strength of the associations seems to be comparable with
that of non- Hispanic white women, particularly when
The male breast is a rudimentary organ that is limited to ducts in the retro-a erolar area, accounting for subtype and menopausal status48. Central
expressing oestrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR) and androgen receptor
obesity seems to have a stronger influence on breast
(AR). Benign and malignant lesions presenting as retro-a erolar lumps can occur,
cancer risk in African- American women than general
although male breast cancer is rare: <1% of all breast cancers occur in men and <0.5%
adiposity as measured by body mass index (BMI)47.
of deaths in men can be attributed to breast cancer. The lifetime risk for breast cancer in
Currently, 18% of premenopausal women in the
men is 1 in 833 compared with 1 in 10 for a woman. Of affected men, 20% have a first-
degree family history of cancer; 4–14% of cases in males are attributed to germline United States have elevated BMI and breast density and
BRCA2 mutations and there is a 60–76% chance of a BRCA2 mutation in families with at may benefit from lifestyle modifications involving weight
least one affected male. Klinefelter syndrome engenders a relative risk of 30–50 for loss and exercise49. However, this benefit is not limited to
male breast cancer (owing to elevated circulating oestrogens); 5% of men with breast premenopausal women, especially when the Asian breast
cancers have this syndrome. Other risk factors for breast cancer development in men cancer population is being studied. For example, it was
include elevated oestrogens (imbalance of oestrogen and testosterone), liver cirrhosis, noted that postmenopausal Asian women whose BMI
prostate cancer, age, obesity and smoking. In individuals who undergo male-t o-
increased ≥5.0 were significantly more likely to develop
female gender reassignment, hormonal stimulation may promote breast cancer
breast cancer than those with a stable BMI (defined as a
development303. Clinically, men with breast cancer present at older age (60–70 years)
change in BMI of ±2.5). Additionally, postmenopausal
and with higher stage than women with breast cancer. Invasive ductal carcinoma
women with abdominal circumference ≥90 cm were
(Fig. 1) is the most frequent subtype, whereas invasive lobular carcinoma is extremely
rare compared with female breast cancer; papillary carcinoma is the second most significantly more likely to develop breast cancer than
frequent histological type. In terms of the intrinsic subtypes (Fig. 1), >90% of male those with abdominal circumference <70 cm50. Among
breast cancers are luminal A or luminal B; human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 postmenopausal women with BMI ≥20, those with high
(HER2)-positive and triple-n egative breast cancer are extremely rare in men304. AR is (≥6.5) glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) were more likely to
often overexpressed in male breast cancer305,306. Expression pathways of luminal genes develop breast cancer than those with low (<5.5) HbA1c.
are also predominant; activation of fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) and Thus, breast cancer incidence, obesity and increased BMI
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3KCA) pathways are potential therapeutic targets to are associated in postmenopausal Asian women50.
be explored in the future307. Prognosis is similar to stage-m atched women with breast
The possibility that the use of hormonal contracep-
cancer, although overall survival is worse because male patients with breast cancer are
tives may increase the risk of breast cancer has been
often older, have more comorbidities and have lower life expectancy304,308. Treatments
raised for many years51. Two recent papers showed a
are largely extrapolated from female breast cancer, due to a paucity of available data.
As the vast majority of breast cancers in men are luminal cancers, the most important stati stically significant increase in breast cancer with
therapy is endocrine therapy308,309. In the adjuvant setting, tamoxifen (which binds to use of hormonal contraception, even contemporary
and inhibits the ER) is the standard of care and aromatase inhibitors should not be used lose- dose formulations52,53. Thus, counselling may be
alone (as these are associated with worse survival). In cases of absolute contra- needed to encourage women of child- bearing age to
indication for tamoxifen use, a combination of an aromatase inhibitor and a luteinizing adopt lifestyle habits that may reduce the cancer risk.
hormone-r eleasing hormone agonist can be considered, although this approach is
associated with higher toxicity308–310. Recommendations for adjuvant chemotherapy Survivors
and radiation therapy are similar to those in women with luminal early breast cancer,
In 2018, an estimated 6.8 million women worldwide
as are recommendations for management of advanced breast cancer308–310.
survived breast cancer after being diagnosed within the
previous 5 years3. Unfortunately, and because most can-
early pregnancy and high levels of oestrogen during preg- cer registries only record the incidence and mortality
nancy reduce breast cancer risk. The proposed mecha- but not the date of relapse, it is unknown how many of
nisms include altered sensitivity of the mammary gland these 6.8 million women are living with metastatic dis-
to later hormonal exposures40; reduction in the number ease and how many are cancer- free survivors. Meeting
of stem or progenitor cells and, consequently, elimi- the long- term medical and psychosocial needs of sur-
nation of targets for malignant transformation41; and vivors in low- and middle- income countries is particu-
changes in gene expression patterns resulting in reduced larly difficult due to limited resources — these issues are
proliferation and increased differentiation42. Other risk attracting global attention54. The emergent issues include
factors for breast cancer include early menarche, lack of but are not limited to common adverse effects over long
breast feeding and late-o nset menopause. periods after cancer treatment, loss of strength, sex-
It has been estimated that ~20% of breast cancers ual dysfunction, bone health, and physical and mental
worldwide can be attributed to modifiable risk factors, health concerns55–59.
including obesity, physical inactivity and alcohol use,
offering the potential for reduction in the disease burden Mechanisms/pathophysiology
by promoting a healthy lifestyle43. For example, each 10 g The exact mechanism by which breast cancer is initiated
(~1 drink) of alcohol consumed daily by an adult woman is unknown; however, much effort has been made to
will lead to a 7–10% increase in breast cancer risk; this molecularly characterize breast cancer and delineate its
association is observed in both premenopausal and formation and progression. At the cell of origin level, the
postmenopausal women44–46. Furthermore, the influ- clonal evolution model (in which mutations accumulate,
ence of central obesity on breast cancer risk and survival epigenetic changes in tumour cells occur and the ‘fittest’
has been studied; current evidence suggests a stronger cells survive) and the cancer stem cell model (in which
adverse effect of obesity on breast cancer risk and sur- only the precursor cancer cells initiate and sustain pro-
vival in women of Asian ancestry than in non-H ispanic gression) are both implicated, and further complicated by
white women in the United States and Europe47. For the fact that cancer stem cells may also evolve in a clonal
African American and non-white Hispanic women, the fashion60. At the morphological level, there is a continuum
4 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
of lesions and genetic modifications from normal glands (GES) with a majority of genes associated with the ER
to cancer (Fig. 1). At the molecular level, there is evidence phenotype, diploid or near diploid karyotypes and low
showing that breast cancer evolves along two divergent tumour grade. The luminal A group and to some extent
molecular pathways of progression, mainly related to the luminal B group fall into this pathway. The second
ER expression, and tumour grade and proliferation pathway — the high- grade-like pathway — is charac-
(described in the intrinsic classification). Furthermore, terized by loss of 13q, gain of chromosomal region
the identification of breast cancer susceptibility genes 11q13, amplification of 17q12 (containing ERBB2,
has shed the light on some aspects of the pathogenesis encoding HER2) and an expression signature of genes
of both sporadic and inherited breast cancer. involved in the cell cycle and cellular proliferation61.
The first pathway —the low- grade-like pathway Tumours composed of intermediate to high grade,
— is characterized by gain of 1q, loss 16q, infrequent including HER2-positive tumours and TNBC, fall into
amplification of 17q12 and a gene expression signature this pathway62.
Table 1 | The most frequent inherited breast cancer syndromes
Syndrome or key genea Mutation characteristics Penetrance Prevalence Breast cancer types
BRCA1 hereditary breast BRCA1; mutations: no hot spots; Cumulative risk of • Autosomal dominant, • Adenocarcinoma NST
cancer syndrome, and tumour suppressor; DNA repair breast cancer at age 3 in 1,000 • Medullary- like
BRCA1 breast and ovarian of double-stranded DNA breaks 70 years of 65%; very • Rare • Metaplasic
breast cancer syndrome high penetrance • Average relative risk 11.4 • Triple- negative
• 80% basal-l ike
• Female and male
BRCA2 hereditary breast BRCA2; mutations: no hot spots; Cumulative risk of breast • Autosomal dominant, • Adenocarcinoma
cancer syndrome, and tumour suppressor; DNA repair cancer at age 70 years of 7 in 1,000 • No distinct phenotype
BRCA2 breast and ovarian of double-s tranded DNA breaks 45%; high penetrance • Rare • Female and male
breast cancer syndrome • Average relative risk 11.7
Li Fraumeni syndrome TP53; mutations: no hot spots; Cumulative risk of • Autosomal dominant, • Phyllodes tumours
and Li Fraumeni-l ike BRCA2, Fanconi genes, MMR also breast cancer at age 1 in 20,000–1 in 5,000 • Adenocarcinoma NST
syndrome mutated; tumour suppressor, 60 years of 50%; very • Very rare • 80% HER2+ female
cell cycle control, DNA repair, high penetrance • Average relative risk 10.5
apoptosis and DNA replication
PALB2 PALB2 monoallelic germline Cumulative risk of breast • Autosomal dominant • Adenocarcinoma NST
mutations; if biallelic: Fanconi cancer in one’s lifetime • Average relative risk 5.3 • No distinct class
anaemia; DNA repair of of 33–58%; moderate to • Pancreas, ovary
double-stranded DNA breaks high penetrance
CHEK2 CHECK2 mutations Cumulative risk of breast • Autosomal dominant • Adenocarcinoma NST
(CHEK2*1100delC more frequent cancer in one’s lifetime of • Average relative risk 2.26 for • ER positivity varies
than 470C>T or I157Thr missense 20–30%; moderate to low women and 3.13 for men according to the type
variants); cell cycle checkpoint penetrance • Higher in cases of family of mutations
kinase, DNA repair, activated history • Female and male
BRCA1 and p53 • Missense variants confer • Colorectal cancer risk
lower risk329 in CHEK2*1100delC
mutation carriers
Ataxia telangiectasia ATM; mutations: no hot spots; Cumulative risk of breast • Autosomal recessive, • Adenocarcinoma NST
homozygotes more affected than cancer in one’s lifetime 1–2.5 in 100,000 • No distinct class
heterozygotes; protein kinase of 20%; low to moderate • Common
DNA damage response through penetrance • Average relative risk 2.8
p53, BRCA1 and CHECK2
pathways
Cowden syndrome PTEN; germline mutations, Cumulative risk of • Autosomal dominant, • Adenocarcinoma NST
variants and epimutations; breast cancer in one’s 1 in 250,000 • No distinct class
tumour suppressor, PIK3CA lifetime of 85%; very high • Average relative risk of 25% • Female and male
pathway penetrance • Very rare • Benign breast lesions
Hereditary diffuse gastric Germline CDH1; mutations: Cumulative risk of breast • Autosomal dominant, • Invasive lobular
cancer syndrome no hot spots; cell invasion cancer in one’s lifetime of <0.1 in 100,000 carcinoma
suppressor and cell–cell adhesion 42–60%; high penetrance • Average relative risk of 6.6 • Female
Peutz–Jegher syndrome STK11; mutations: no hot spots; Cumulative risk of breast • Autosomal dominant • Adenocarcinoma NST
tumour suppressor gene, cell- cancer at age 60 years of • Insufficient data to determine • No distinct class
cycle regulation and apoptosis 32–54%; high penetrance average relative risk
Neurofibromatosis NF1 germline mutations; Cumulative risk of breast • Autosomal dominant, • Adenocarcinoma NST
tumour suppressor and negative cancer in one’s lifetime 1–5 in 10,000 • Higher prevalence
regulation of the RAS signalling of 17%; low to moderate • Average relative risk of 2.6 of metaplastic
pathway penetrance330 carcinoma331
• Female and male
+, positive; ER , oestrogen receptor ; HER2, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2; NST, no special type (also known as invasive ductal carcinoma). Data from
reFs34–36,332,333. aLynch syndrome may also be associated with an increased frequency of breast cancer, but the link is not clear.
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 5
0123456789();
Primer
Molecular alterations either globally hypomethylated (leading to gene acti-
The most frequently mutated and/or amplified genes in vation, upregulation of oncogenes and chromosomal
the tumour cells are TP53 (41% of tumours), PIK3CA instability) or, less frequently, focally (locus- specific)
(30%), MYC (20%), PTEN (16%), CCND1 (16%), ERBB2 hypermethylated (leading to gene repression and
(13%), FGFR1 (11%) and GATA3 (10%), as reported in genetic instability due to the silencing of DNA repair
a series of early breast cancers63 (Fig. 2). These genes genes). Other epigenetic mechanisms involve histone
encode cell- cycle modulators that are either repressed tail modifications by DNA methylation, inducing chro-
(for example, p53) or activated (for example, cyclin D1), matin structure changes to silence gene expression and
sustaining proliferation and/or inhibiting apoptosis, nucleosomal remodelling. These changes are reversible,
inhibiting oncogenic pathways that are activated (MYC, enzyme-m ediated and potentially targetable66. For exam-
HER2 and FGFR1) or inhibiting elements that are no ple, in luminal-l ike breast cancer cell lines, inhibition of
longer repressed (PTEN). The majority of the mutations histone deacetylase with specific inhibitors such as vori-
affecting 100 putative breast cancer drivers are extremely nostat67 or chidamide68 can reverse resistance to endo-
rare64, therefore, most breast cancers are caused by crine therapy via inhibition of the resistance pathway
multiple, low- penetrant mutations that act cumula- driven by epidermal growth factor receptor signalling.
tively. Luminal A tumours have a high prevalence of Recently, a phase III trial in metastatic luminal breast
PIK3CA mutations (49%), whereas a high prevalence cancer showed the superiority of a treatment combin-
of TP53 mutations is a hallmark of basal- like tumours ing chidamide with endocrine therapy (namely, the
(84%). For TNBC, different molecular drivers under- aromatase inhibitor exemestane) to exemestane alone69.
line its subtypes (Box 2). At the metastatic stage, specific
predictive alterations, such as PIK3CA mutations, can be Hormone receptors. The major risk factors for spo-
easily detected non-i nvasively in the plasma in circulat- radic breast cancer are linked to hormone exposure.
ing tumour DNA rather than on tumour biopsy; never- Oestrogen is clearly a promoter of breast cancer, through
theless, depending on the technology used, the level of its binding of the ER located in the nucleus (encoded by
sensitivity may vary65. ESR1), which is a ligand-a ctivated transcription factor.
Epigenetic alterations are involved in breast carcino- Hormones stimulate breast development during puberty,
genesis and progression. In breast cancer, genes can be menstrual cycles and pregnancy (the only period when
NOTCH1 NOTCH2 FGFR1 FGFR2 IGF2R
EGFR ERBB2 ERBB3 ERBB4 MET KIT
NOTCH3 NOTCH4 FGFR3 FGFR4 IGF1R
GRB7
CDH1 Cytoplasm
GRB2 INPP5D
SOS1 INPP4B PIK3R1
MAP3K1 NF1 E2F1
PIK3CA
E2F3
HRAS
AKT1
MAP2K4 NRAS KRAS PIP2 PIP3 PDK1 MTOR
AKT2 AKT3
BRAF PTEN
MAPK8
RAF1 ARAF
Germline MDM2 CDKN2A CDKN2B CDKN2C CDKN2D
mutations MEK1
CDK4 CDK6 CDK2
ATM MEK2
MDM4 TP53 CCND1 CCND2 CCND3 CCNE1 CCNE2
BRCA1
ERK1
BRCA2
ERK2 CDKN1A CDKN1B RB1
Nucleus
Growth,
ESR1 PGR AR
40% 40% proliferation,
loss 0 gain angiogenesis,
GATA3 FOXA1 XBP1 MYC RARA survival and
Samples metabolism
altered KMT2C MLL4 KDM5A SETD2 ARID1A TOP2A
Fig. 2 | Molecular mutations in breast cancer. The Cancer Genome Atlas data on breast tumour DNA copy number and
somatic mutations were used to identify the frequency of each genetic alteration across 792 patients with breast cancer
(all subtypes)322. Each gene is shaded according to the overall frequency of alteration. Orange indicates a high level of
amplification and/or likely gain-o f-function mutations; blue represents homozygous deletions and/or likely loss-of-function
mutations. Figure adapted from reF.323, Springer Nature Limited.
6 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
Box 2 | Triple-n egative breast cancer molecular classification although no ligand specific for HER2 has been identi-
fied. HER2 signalling activates proliferation, cell survival,
Gene expression assays have identified six different triple-n egative breast cancer metastasis and adhesion through different pathways such
(TNBC) molecular subtypes (Lehman’s classification). These are basal-l ike 1 (BL1), basal-
as the RAS pathway and the phosphoinositide 3-kinase
like 2 (BL2), mesenchymal-l ike (M), mesenchymal/stem-l ike (MSL), immunomodulatory
(PI3K)–protein kinase B (AKT)–mitogen- activated
(IM) and luminal androgen receptor (LAR). BL1 has a high TP53 mutation rate (92%),
protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. Targeting HER2 has
alterations in genes involved in DNA repair mechanisms (such as BRCA1, BRCA2, TP53
proven to be effective in HER2-positive breast can-
and RB1) and a cell-c ycle gene signature311. BL2 has cell-c ycle gene signatures,
overexpression of growth factor signalling genes and overexpression of myoepithelial cers that are defined by protein overexpression or gene
differentiation genes. M and MSL subtypes are enriched for genes encoding regulators amplification (see below, Management).
of cell motility, invasion and mesenchymal differentiation, but the MSL subtype is
uniquely enriched for the genes that encode regulators of epithelial–mesenchymal Immune involvement
transition and stemness. The Claudin-l ow subtype from the intrinsic classification Breast cancer develops in a complex microenviron-
(Fig. 1) is mostly composed of the M and MSL subtypes312. MSL also shares numerous ment comprising several benign cell types and the
genes involved in the regulation of immune response with the IM subtype. Finally, LAR
extracellular matrix (which provides mechanical sup-
is characterized by a higher mutational burden with overexpression of genes coding for
port for the tumour and enables cellular interaction
mammary luminal differentiation, overexpression of the regulators of the androgen
in a paracrine fashion). The most abundant cell type
receptor (AR) signalling pathway and increased mutations in PI3KCA (55%), AKT1 (13%)
is cancer- associated fibroblasts, but the breast cancer
and CDH1 (13%) genes311. This classification has been refined into four groups: BL1
(immunoactivated), BL2 (immunosuppressed), M (including most of the MSL) and microenvironment also contains cells of leukocyte line-
LAR313, with implications for response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Combining RNA age (including lymphocytes, macrophages and myeloid-
and DNA profiling analyses, a similar classification of TNBC has been reported derived stromal cells), most of which are involved in the
(Burstein’s classification), divided into four distinct subtypes. These subtypes are LAR, immune response (Fig. 3)73. Immunogenicity of breast
mesenchymal (MES), basal-l ike immunosuppressed (BLIS) and basal-l ike immune- cancer varies between the molecular subtypes, being
activated (BLIA)314. Each subtype has specific therapeutic targets (for example, the LAR highest in TNBC and HER2-positive tumours and lower
subtype can be targeted via the AR and the cell surface protein mucin) and different in luminal A and luminal B subtypes74,75. Moreover,
prognosis (for example, the BLIA subtype is associated with better prognosis than BLIS).
the response to neoadjuvant treatment and the prog-
Despite these multiple efforts, there is no established diagnostic assay yet for the
nosis of breast cancer are positively influenced by the
classification of TNBC in routine practice.
amount of tumour- infiltrating lymphocytes, which
reflects the intensity of the immune response within the
the organ is functional). During the menstrual cycles, tumour bed76,77.
an imbalance between oestrogen and progesterone The immune microenvironment influences the
enhances cell proliferation and may cause DNA dam- development and progression of breast cancer accord-
age accumulation. With the repetition of the process at ing to immune surveillance and immune editing prin-
each cycle, a defective repair process can occur, leading ciples. In the early phase of carcinogenesis, the immune
to mutations in pre- malignant, and then in malignant, microenvironment exerts mostly anti-t umour action, via
cells. At this stage, oestrogen stimulates the growth of the cytokine milieu derived from activated CD8+ and
these cells and the proliferation of stromal cells that CD4+ T cells. By contrast, once a tumour becomes inva-
support cancer development. When activated by ligand sive, the microenvironment cell composition, including
binding, the ER can modulate gene expression by inter- cancer- associated fibroblasts and cytokine content, are
acting with oestrogen response elements located in the tumour-p romoting, ‘hacked’ by breast cancer cells78–80.
promoter region of specific genes. Extracellular signals
can also stimulate the expression and activation of the Tumour biology and metastatic disease
ER in the absence of oestrogen70. Furthermore, the ER The intrinsic classification (Fig. 1) influences the profile
can also interact directly with proteins, such as growth (timing, sites) of metastatic disease. Luminal A tumours
factor receptors, to enhance gene expression related to tend to relapse late (after 5 years of first presentation)
cell proliferation and survival71. Thus, drugs blocking and have a tropism for bone and lymph nodes (as do
the effects of oestrogen on the mammary gland, such luminal B, HER2-negative tumours). TNBCs are prone
as tamoxifen, or drugs that block the production of to early recurrences (within 2–3 years of first pres-
oestrogen, such as aromatase inhibitors, have major roles entation) and tend to form visceral (lung) and brain
in the treatment of hormone- sensitive breast cancer. metastases. Since the era of anti-H ER2 targeted therapy,
As oestrogen interacts with bone, aromatase inhibi- HER2-positive breast cancers show better prognosis, but
tors can also cause osteoporosis (as menopause does). they escape therapy through brain metastasis81.
By contrast, tamoxifen has oestrogen-l ike effects on the Breast cancers that are diagnosed as metastatic at first
bone, thereby preventing osteoporosis72. presentation (de novo) account for 25–28% of metastatic
breast cancers5,82. Their proportion varies with the age at
HER2. ERBB2 is amplified in 13–15% of breast cancers, diagnosis from 5.1% for women <40 years of age up to
causing an activation of the HER2 pathway. HER2 is, with 34.3% if aged >75 years (data from France83). The true
epidermal growth factor receptor (HER1), HER3 and number of metastatic breast cancers x years after initial
HER4, a member of the human epidermal growth factor presentation, at sites and/or organs outside the local ini-
family. These proteins comprise an extracellular ligand- tial breast tumour area and regional nodes (including
binding domain, a transmembrane domain and a tyro- infra- clavicular and supra- clavicular ipsilateral lymph
sine kinase intracellular catalytic domain. HER2 activ- nodes), depends on several factors including age, pres-
ation occurs through dimerization after ligand binding, ence of mass screening, quality of initial local treatment
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 7
0123456789();
Primer
Pro-tumour Anti-tumour
CAF
Tumour cell
TGFβ C T C G L F 2 β 2 TRAIL B Fas
VEGF RANKL
FasL
GAL9
MMPs PD-L1
Fox P3+ T cell MHC I TRAIL Preforin
reg CTLA-4 CXCL16 TCR Granzyme B
PD-1
MDSC CD4+ CD8+
NOS2 T H 1 cell T cell
Arginase
IDO NK T cell
NK cell
TAM Recruitment of T 2 cells
H
CD4+
T 2 cell
H TNFα TNF
IL-10 IL-2 IL-12
IFNγ IL-18
Induction of T cells IFNγ
reg MHC I
APC
IL-10 IFNγ
IL-12 MHC II
Fig. 3 | Immune crosstalk in breast cancer. The immune reaction to breast cancer is initiated by the neoantigens
expressed by tumour cells, encoded by altered genes and presented by antigen-p resenting cells (APCs) on major
histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) or MHC II molecules. Neoantigen presentation results in activation of CD8+
(cytotoxic) and CD4+ (helper) T cells. CD8+ T cells are the main effector cell of the anti-t umour immune response; their
activation (principally through the T cell receptor (TCR)) results in release of the cytolytic molecules perforin and granzyme B,
which directly induce tumour cell lysis. The anti-t umour action of CD8+ T cells is amplified by cytokines secreted from
CD4+ T cells, namely IFNγ, IL-2 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF). Activated CD8+ T cells also upregulate expression of Fas
ligand (FasL) and TNF-r elated apoptosis-i nducing ligand (TRAIL; also known as TNFSF10) on their membrane, which induce
apoptotic pathways to kill tumour cells. Cancer cells elicit an innate immune response, comprising natural killer (NK) and
NK T cells that are capable of direct tumour cell killing. Malignant cells can suppress the immune response by expressing
immune checkpoint regulators (for example, cytotoxic T lymphocyte-a ssociated protein 4 (CTL A-4) and programmed cell
death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L 1)), which are upregulated by effector T cells as a consequence of chronic exposure to tumour
antigens (T cell exhaustion). The reduced anti-t umour immune response by upregulated immune checkpoint molecules
establishes a pro-t umour microenvironment, which is further enriched by recruitment of immunosuppressive cells,
T regulatory (T ) cells and myeloid-d erived stromal cells (MDSCs). T cells, which inhibit activation of CD4+ and CD8+
reg reg
T cells, are induced by tumour-a ssociated macrophages (TAMs) and by tumour-s ecreted and cancer-a ssociated fibroblast
(CAF)-secreted factors, such as transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ). In addition, TAMs and T cells inhibit APCs via IL-10
reg
secretion, inducing a tolerogenic state of APCs. MDSCs are recruited to the tumour bed by tumour-s ecreted factors,
inhibit trafficking of T cells to the tumour bed and inhibit effector T cell activation by upregulating 2,3-indoleamine-
dioxygenase (IDO) and arginase expression, enzymes involved in the T cell nutrient depletion. The secretome of the
pro-t umour microenvironment, containing factors that stimulate angiogenesis and invasion (such as vascular-e ndothelial
growth factor (VEGF) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs)) also contribute to tumour immune escape and propagation.
CCL22, CC-c hemokine ligand 22; CXCL16, CXC-c hemokine ligand 16; NOS, nitric oxide synthase; PD-1, programmed cell
death 1; RANKL , receptor activator of nuclear factor-κ B (RANK) ligand; T 1 cell, type 1 T helper cell. Adapted from reF.75,
H
CC- BY-4.0 https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
and access to drugs and innovations (such as precision to prevent metastatic recurrence (such as aspirin and
radiation therapy for brain metastases or access to clinical metformin), the results are as yet mostly inconclusive.
trials)5,82. In western countries, the proportion of patients
who experience metastatic recurrence is probably Tumour molecular evolution
20–30%. Recurrence and disease-f ree survival (DFS) are The majority (~80%) of the driver alterations of the
measured after the completion of the initial treatment. primary breast cancer are conserved in the metastatic
Tumour features that lead to metastasis in breast sites. However, different metastatic sites may harbour
cancer are not well known. Additionally, although ‘private’ mutations (including new drivers), resulting
some researchers are attempting to find interventions in subclonal diversification and discrepancies between
8 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
the biology of breast cancers at different metastatic sites Subclonal diversification may explain the dis-
within an individual patient. Such alterations occur crepancies observed between primary breast cancers
late, and some alterations are subsequent to treatment and metastatic breast cancer for the expression of ER
pressure; for example, ESR1 mutations can arise after (~20% discordance), PR (~33% discordance) and HER2
aromatase inhibitor treatment (which targets oestro- (~8% discordance). These molecular targets are more
gen synthesis) whereas others might be ‘true’ metastatic frequently lost than newly acquired (for instance, 13%
precursors. Indeed, mutations of ESR1 that affect the of HER2-positive primary tumours generate HER2-
ligand- binding domain are detected in the metastatic negative metastases whereas only 5% of HER2-negative
tissue or the plasma in 23–40% of women with breast primary tumours generate HER2-positive metastases)87,
cancer who progress after prior successful aromatase which affects treatment strategies.
inhibitor treatment. This acquired resistance phenom-
enon does not seem to influence sensitivity to fulvestrant Diagnosis, screening and prevention
(a selective ER degrader) but does affect sensitivity to Screening
aromatase inhibitors and is dependent on the type of Population screening aims at finding early disease for
mutation observed (for example, D538G mutation is which there is effective treatment, using a test that is
worse than Y537S)84. During metastatic development, non- invasive, accurate and acceptable to end- users.
the different deposits exhibit linear, parallel or poly- Population screening for breast cancer using mammog-
clonal evolutionary pathways from the primary tumour, raphy is a secondary prevention strategy aimed at
showing different genetic and epigenetic evolution. This detecting the disease at an early stage to enable effec-
process is highly complex and still poorly understood85. tive treatment. Collectively, mammography (low- dose
Liquid biopsy with an evaluation of circulating tumour X- ray imaging of the breasts; Fig. 4) randomized con-
DNA profiles can reflect the clonal heterogeneity, but trolled trials have provided high- level evidence that
this approach may lack sensitivity86. popu lation screening significantly reduces mortality
from breast cancer by a relative risk of 20% for those
invited to screening88. Efficacy of mammography screen-
ing is age- dependent and is most evident in women
a b
50–69 years of age, with weaker evidence of benefit in
those outside this range89. Observational studies con-
ducted in real-w orld screening practice provide similar
evidence on the benefit of mammography screening
to randomized controlled trials, although estimates
of effect are heterogeneous90,91. Given that screening
improves early detection of breast cancer, an expected
benefit is a reduction in more intensive treatment, for
example lower mastectomy rates. However, population-
level studies have shown conflicting reports regarding
the effect of screening on treatment92,93.
Mammography screening has been implemented
in the majority of developed health systems (for exam-
ple, in the United States, United Kingdom, Europe and
c d Australia), although the organization of screening ser-
vices and uptake (participation) by women vary consid-
erably between countries94. Southeast Asian countries
implemented mammography screening later than
European countries and several Asian countries have
only partial screening programmes94. Nations with lim-
ited resources (for example, sub- Saharan African and
east African countries), where women often present
with more- advanced cancers, have not implemented
mammography screening and this reflects the generally
limited health services infrastructure.
Debate is ongoing regarding whether the harms
associated with mammography screening outweigh its
potential benefit in reducing breast cancer deaths, with
Fig. 4 | Breast cancer imaging. A postmenopausal woman 53 years of age with no family
different recommendations on population screening by
history and no clinical findings underwent routine breast screening with mammography ,
various agencies (Box 3). The most frequent harm from
which detected a lesion in the right breast (panel a, cranio-c audal view (left) and
mammography screening is false-p ositive recall, which
mediolateral oblique view (right)). The images were also acquired with digital breast
varies according to screening intensity and the health-
tomosynthesis, which showed a small spiculated lesion in the lower inner quadrant
(panel b, mediolateral oblique view). The lesion was investigated with ultrasonography care setting91,95. Overdiagnosis, an epidemiologically-
(panel c), and biopsy confirmed an invasive ductal carcinoma on histology. MRI showed proven ‘excess’ of screen- detected breast cancer that
the enhancing spiculated mass (panel d). The tumour is indicated within the dashed lines would not have emerged clinically in the individual’s
in each panel. lifetime, is inherently and methodologically challenging
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 9
0123456789();
Primer
to quantify, and is the most serious harm from screening Diagnostic work- up
because it would likely lead to overtreatment88,90,91,95,96. Women experiencing breast symptoms or breast
Women at higher risk of breast cancer than the average changes, such as a lump, localized pain, nipple symp-
(population) risk owing to predisposing genetic muta- toms or skin changes, require appropriate diagnostic
tions (TaBle 1) are generally advised to have risk-tailored evaluation, as do women who are recalled for further
screening, which may include more frequent screening testing because of positive screening mammography.
and/or use of technologies other than mammo graphy. Diagnosing breast cancer is based on a triple test com-
Adding MRI to mammography increases screening prising clinical examination, imaging (usually mam-
sensitivity in women with BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 muta- mography and/or ultrasonography) and needle biopsy103.
tions and is the recommended screening approach for Assessment entails performing the appropriate elements
BRCA mutation carriers and women at substantially of the triple test, factoring in the patients’ character-
increased lifetime risk of breast cancer97–99. However, istics and presentation, and should be performed before
the International Agency for Research on Cancer reports beginning treatment. Appropriate assessment helps to
that this has not been shown to improve mortality end accurately discriminate between those who have breast
points90. Use of adjunct imaging, such as ultrasonog- cancer and those who have benign conditions (such as
raphy, MRI and digital breast tomosynthesis (near-3D fibroadenoma) or normal breast changes and can be
mammography), to screen women with high breast reassured or safely managed with follow- up, obviating
tissue density100,101 (heterogeneously or markedly dense the need for surgical intervention.
breasts), in which there is a large amount of glandular Ultrasonography is almost universally used to assess
tissue on the mammogram, increases breast cancer localized symptoms, as an initial imaging modality in
detection100 but has not been evaluated for mortality out- young women, to identify and characterize screen-
comes90. Emerging technologies such as tomosynthesis, detected abnormalities and, preferentially, for imaging-
contrast-e nhanced mammography and gamma imaging guided percutaneous biopsy. Breast ultrasonography
show enhanced cancer detection rates in observational may also be used to characterize and biopsy axillary
studies when added to mammography, but the body of lymph nodes in women suspected of having breast can-
evidence is robust only for tomosynthesis102, making this cer104. Imaging evaluation also includes MRI for specific
the most likely candidate for future breast cancer screen- clinical indications, such as in women for whom con-
ing. At present, there is no convincing evidence that these ventional imaging tests have been equivocal, inconclu-
new technologies enhance the screening benefit above sive or discordant, for evaluating women with breast
that achieved with mammography alone90. Breast self- implants and for evaluating women with axillary nodal
examination has not been shown to reduce breast cancer metastases but no detectable (occult) breast tumour99,105.
mortality, or to detect interval cancers between screening Preoperative MRI is also selectively used for staging
examinations90. newly diagnosed disease, but this is a debated practice
given the limited evidence on whether it enhances a
patient’s clinical outcomes105. However, MRI is advised
Box 3 | Recommendations on population screening for preoperative assessment of newly diagnosed invasive
lobular cancers99.
Population mammography screening recommendations (for women with average riska)
differ between countries and agencies, reflecting persistent non-c onsensus on the
Pathological reporting
magnitude of benefit (mortality reduction) and harms (in particular, the extent of
The use of a standardized synoptic pathology report
overdiagnosis), and how these outcomes balance out overall and in specific age groups.
with a checklist is highly recommended106. For an inva-
This is exemplified in selected recommendations:
sive carcinoma, the pathology report should provide
• The US Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening every 2 years for
details on the tumour histotype (according to the WHO
women aged 50–74 years, and emphasizes individualized decisions for those aged
40–49 years that take account of the woman’s values315 classification), histological grade, hormone receptor and
HER2 status, tumour size and lymph node involvement;
• Canadian guidelines support shared decisions, do not recommend screening for
women aged 40–49 years and recommend screening every 2–3 years for women aged at surgery, the surgical specimen is used to provide infor-
50–69 years316 mation on peritumoral vascular invasion and surgical
• The American Cancer Society recommends annual screening for women aged margin status (Box 4). These data are indispensable for
40–54 years, and a transition to 2-yearly screening for those aged ≥55 years (with the optimal patient management.
opportunity to continue annual screening)317
• The International Agency for Research on Cancer reports that there is sufficient Histotype WHO classification. According to the latest
evidence that screening confers benefit in women aged 50–74 years (but limited edition of the WHO classification, breast carcinomas
evidence in the 40–49 years age group) and that there is sufficient evidence that are divided into 19 different major subtypes, including
mammography detects breast cancers that would never have been diagnosed or invasive carcinomas of no special type (70–75%; also
would never have caused harm if women had not been screened (overdiagnosis)90 known as not otherwise specified (formerly ductal car-
• European recommendations specify mammography through organized screening cinoma)), lobular carcinomas (10–14%) and the other
programmes every 2–3 years in women aged 45–74 years (and suggest against carcinomas of special type (including 17 different rare
annual screening)318 histotypes and their subclassifiers)107 (Fig. 5). Breast can-
aWomen at average risk do not have a pre-e xisting breast cancer or a previous diagnosis cer of ‘no special type’ is a carcinoma that does not fit
of a high-r isk breast lesion (such as atypical ductal hyperplasia), and do not harbour a into a specific histotype. Some of the special types (such
risk-enhancing genetic mutation (such as BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations or other familial breast as tubular, cribriform and mucinous) — if at least 90%
cancer syndromes).
pure (that is, no mixed histology or <10% of another
10 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
Box 4 | The pathology report for breast cancer recommended in routine practice; because of its avail-
ability and cost-e ffectiveness, immunohistochemistry is
• Histological type according to the current WHO classification107 the preferred choice for HER2 status evaluation world-
• Histological grade according to the Elston- and Ellis-m odified Scarff–Bloom–Richardson wide. HER2-positive status is characterized by a strong
system108 complete immunohistochemical membrane staining
• Peritumoral vascular or lymphatic embolia or by an amplification of ERBB2 detected by an in situ
• Hormone receptor status (oestrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor) hybridization method (chromogenic in situ hybridi-
zation or fluorescent in situ hybridization) in ≥10% of
• Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status
invasive tumour cells. Repeat testing of the surgical speci-
• Excision margins (mm)a
men may be considered if results seem discordant with
• Tumour size, single or multiple tumours
other histopathological findings.
• Ductal carcinoma in situ component type, grade and percentage
Ki67 is widely used to determine proliferation and
• Lymph node status
predicts chemosensitivity. However, Ki67 is relevant
• Pathological stage according to the Union for International Cancer Control TNM only for ER- positive, HER2-negative breast cancers.
system122
As HER2-positive breast cancers and TNBCs (with
• Ki67 score according to the international group guidelinesb some exceptions) require chemotherapy, Ki67 does not
bring any benefit to therapy decision- making in these
aInformation obtained at surgical resection. bParticularly relevant for ER-p ositive, HER2-negative
breast cancers. subtypes. Furthermore, Ki67 determination is neither
standardized nor generally recommended114. The most
widely used cut-o ff value is 20% stained nuclei in inva-
subtype) — have a very good prognosis. On the other sive tumour cells; a fraction of <15% stained nuclei,
hand, some other special types (such as pleiomorphic whatever the intensity, is considered low proliferation,
lobular carcinoma, high- grade metaplastic carcinoma and >30% considered high proliferation.
and micropapillary carcinoma) are associated with the Finally, given that TNBC does not express ER, PR
poorest clinical outcome. Another special case is inflam- or HER2, treatment decision- making is more difficult.
matory breast cancer, a rare and aggressive form charac- However, genetic expression studies have identified sub-
terized by malignant cells blocking the lymph vessels in types of TNBC (Box 2), which may have prognostic and
the skin of the breast (Box 5). therapeutic implications although their clinical utility
remains to be assessed.
Histological grade. Assessment of histological grade
is made according to the Elston- and Ellis- modified Vascular invasion and surgical margins. Histology,
Scarff–Bloom–Richardson system108 and is based on grade, ER, PR and HER2 are routinely assessed on the
three tumour features: the proportion of cancer cells that pre-s urgical biopsy specimens. Tumour type and grade
are in tubule formation, anisokaryosis (the variation of are systematically reassessed on the surgical specimen,
nuclear size and shape between the cells) and the num- as are the predictive biomarkers if they are discrepant
ber of mitoses (cell divisions). Each feature is scored with with the histopathological features.
a three- tier system, and the final grade (G1, G2 or G3) Peri-t umoural vascular invasion is highly correlated
is determined by adding the individual scores. Tumour with lymph node metastases and local recurrences115.
grade reflects the potential aggressiveness of the breast A positive tumour margin when the tumour is excised
cancer and is a strong prognostic factor. (that is, cancer cells extending past the edge) — noted
as a 0-mm margin, or ‘ink on tumour’ — confers a sig-
Theranostic biomarkers. Determination of the ER, nificant impact on local recurrence after conservation
PR and HER2 status is mandatory for all patients with surgery116. The adequacy of a no ink on tumour margin
invasive breast cancer. These markers are recognized by in invasive breast cancer is endorsed by most guidelines
international guidelines109–111 as predictive factors indis- and the margin for ductal carcinoma in situ is 2 mm with
pensable for invasive breast cancer therapy decision- no abnormal cells around the specimen117–121. The report
making. At diagnosis, they are routinely tested by should specify the status of the margins: free or contain-
immunohistochemistry on the formalin-f ixed paraffin- ing malignant cells, the distance to the closest margin
embedded tissue samples obtained from pre- surgical and its nature (in situ or invasive). Non- free surgical
core biopsies. margins necessitate further surgical intervention.
Any nuclear staining (irrespective of the signal inten-
sity) in >1% of invasive tumour cells is considered hor- Lymph node status and pathological stage. The pathol-
mone receptor-p ositive (ER and/or PR) by the American ogist evaluates lymph node specimens either from a
Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) and the College of sentinel lymph node biopsy procedure or from a com-
American Pathologists (CAP)112. Some countries, such plete axillary dissection. A sentinel lymph node biopsy
as France, do not endorse these guidelines and con- is accurate to assess axillary node status in clinical node-
sider 10% a more relevant cut- off value for hormone- negative (that is, not palpable and not visible on imag-
sensitivity determination. According to ASCO and CAP, ing) disease, and avoids unnecessary axillary clearance
the HER2 status can be positive, negative or equivo- with its associated morbidity (such as lymphoedema).
cal as assessed by one or two technical approaches113. In the biopsy procedure, the entire node must be exten-
Immunohistochemistry, fluorescent in situ hybridiza- sively examined by serial sectioning to maximize its pre-
tion or chromogenic in situ hybridization is currently dictive value. The most widely used system for staging
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 11
0123456789();
Lobular pleiomorphic
(<2%)
ERBB2 amplification (25%)
CDH1 mutations (85%); PIK3CA, AKT1 or PTEN
alterations (50%); ERBB2 and ERBB3 mutations (8.5%)
Metaplastic (0.2–5%)
TP53 mutations (70%);
PIK3CA mutations (>50%);
WNT pathway activation
Claudin-low
breast carcinoma is the TNM system published by the making decisions concerning the control of local disease,
American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) and as well as to determine the value of systemic therapy.
the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC). This
system provides information about the extent of cancer Prognosis
at the primary site (tumour or T), at the regional lymph Classic prognostic factors include age, stage, tumour
nodes (nodes or N) and spread to distant metastatic grade, tumour type and lymphovascular status. Breast
sites (metastases or M). Tumour size is assessed micro- cancer before 35 years of age is rare (<5% of patients),
scopically by measuring the largest diameter. In the case potentially more aggressive and more frequently associ-
of multicentric tumours122, the largest tumour focus is ated with hereditary breast cancer. Geriatric patients with
the reference for T assessment (no addition is allowed). breast cancer (>75 years of age) experience 17% higher
Special techniques for classification are not required and disease- specific mortality than younger patients123.
comparable information can, therefore, be collected over With the extent of mammography screening, the stage
time and in different locations. T, N and M are com- at diagnosis has decreased and, concomitantly, the nat-
bined to create five stages (stages 0–IV) that summarize ural history of breast cancer has changed; prognostica-
information about the extent of regional disease (tumour tion, therefore, relies on tumour biology (histological
size, skin or chest-w all invasion and nodal involvement) type, grade, lymphovascular invasion and theranostic
and metastasis to distant sites. Alongside clinical (c) and marker status). For ER- negative, HER2-negative breast
pathological (p) assessment, prefixes can also be used in cancers and for HER2-positive breast cancers, the
the pathology report to indicate prior systemic therapy presence of tumour- infiltrating lymphocytes is associ-
(y) or locoregional recurrence (r). Metastases are usually ated with good prognosis124. As HER2-positive breast
detected by imaging and then may be verified by biopsy. cancers and TNBCs are usually treated with chemo-
For individual patients, this information is important for therapy with or without targeted therapy (see below,
ekil-lanimul
,–2REH
,+RE
yllareneG
ekil-lasab
,–2REH
,–RE
yllareneG
Primer
Lobular classical (12%) Micropapillary (3–6%) Mucinous (~2%) Tall cell carcinoma with
reverse polarity (<0.1%)
PIK3CA and MAP3K1
mutations (45%); Triple-negative (60%;
GATA3 mutations (27%) weak and focal ER
expression in 40%);
Lymphophyllic IDH2 mutations (84%);
PIK3CA mutations (67%)
Adenoid cystic (<1%) Adenocarcinoma with Secretory (~1%) Apocrine (~1%)
lymphoid-rich stroma
Lack of TP53 and PIK3CA (<1%) NTRK3–ETV6 fusion PI3KCA or PTEN
mutations; alterations of mutations (>60%); ERBB2
MYB or MYBL, including TP53 mutations (87%); amplification (30%);
MYB–NFIB fusion (60%) BRCA inactivated (>50%) androgen receptor
activation (90%);
molecular apocrine
Histotype (frequency) Molecular features (occurrence) Other features
Fig. 5 | Breast cancer histological types and molecular alterations. The WHO classification recognizes different
subtypes of invasive breast cancer, some of which are shown here, that harbour specific molecular alterations107.
For example, lobular carcinomas and their precursors (lobular neoplasia) harbour CDH1 mutations leading to the
pathognomonic loss of E-C adherin expression by immunohistochemistry (85% of cases)324,325. They also harbour PIK3CA,
PTEN, AKT1, ERBB2 and ERBB3 mutations and copy number gains in ESR1. Secretory carcinomas harbour a specific
translocation t(12;15) leading to a fusion gene NTRK3–ETV6 (reF.326), whereas the adenoid cystic carcinoma is
characterized by t(6;9) and the fusion gene MYB–NFIB327. Understanding these features may help in the design of tailored
therapeutics for particular histological subtypes324. ER , oestrogen receptor ; HER2, human epidermal growth factor
receptor 2. Image of tall cell carcinoma with reverse polarity courtesy of G. MacGrogan, Institut Bergognié, France.
12 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
Management), tumour- infiltrating lymphocytes also have been validated for therapeutic decision- making
represent predictive biomarkers for treatment response. (TaBle 2). All patients with ER-p ositive and/or PR-p ositive
For the purpose of prognostication and treatment breast cancer, independent of HER2 status, should receive
decision- making, several scoring systems have been endocrine therapy to block the ER activity.
developed, such as Adjuvant! Online, the Nottingham The main question in luminal (hormone- receptor-
Prognostic Index125 and PREDICT126. These validated positive, HER2-negative) early breast cancer is which
algorithms render good general estimates of patient patients need chemotherapy (neoadjuvant or adjuvant)
prognosis and can aid in discussing therapy options in addition to endocrine therapy. In patients with luminal
with patients. However, they do not accurately reflect A disease and with low tumour burden, chemotherapy
all specific patient subgroups or tumour biology sub- should be omitted. In general, the recommendation for
types127 and cannot be used as the sole criterion for chemotherapy in ER- positive, HER2-negative tumours
treatment decisions in individual patients. The surrogate may be influenced by proliferation (Ki67 expression)
intrinsic subtypes are the most important criteria for and — if available — the results of a GES.
treatment decisions (Fig. 1). Four subtypes of breast can- As well as the traditional immunohistochemical mar-
cer are clinically valuable and imply distinct treatment kers, GES panels are used in many western countries,
approaches110,128. Luminal A-l ike tumours usually present if available and/or reimbursed, for chemotherapy
with low-r isk features such as low grade, high expression decisions in ER-positive, HER2-negative early breast
of ER and PR, low proliferation and a low- risk GES. By cancer. Currently, several GES assays are available. First-
contrast, the luminal-B -like group expresses ER but not generation signatures (OncotypeDx and MammaPrint)
(or to a lesser extent) PR, and displays high grade or high are performed in centralized (company- owned) labo-
proliferation and high-r isk GESs. TNBC and non-l uminal ratories. In tumours with 0–3 involved lymph nodes
types show aggressive features such as high grade, no classified as low risk by a GES, adding chemotherapy
expression of ER, PR and HER2, and high proliferation. to endocrine therapy can be avoided, whereas high-
HER2-positive tumours more frequently display G2 or risk patients should receive chemo therapy. Currently,
G3 features, low or absent expression of ER and PR, and the prognostic value of MammaPrint130 and Onco-
medium to high proliferation. The claudin-l ow intrinsic typeDx131,132 is supported by level of evidence Ia and their
transcriptomic group has no surrogate biomarker and is use is recom mended by several guidelines110,128,133,134.
consequently not currently used in clinical practice. Consensus opin ion is that patients with ER- positive,
HER2-negative node- negative early breast cancer
Management (considered having a high-c linical risk of relapse accor-
In early breast cancer without metastases, women with ding to traditional criteria) who have a low genomic
tumours that are deemed operable undergo surgery. risk score can safely forgo neoadjuvant or adjuvant
However, most women also need some form of systemic chemotherapy. However, the use MammaPrint and
therapy. Systemic therapy can be given before surgery OncotypeDx in patients with 1–3 positive lymph nodes
(neoadjuvant) in women with large tumours for whom is still controversial as only few prospective trials have
reducing the tumour burden is preferred or if informa- so far been reported130,135; the results of RxPONDER
tion of pathological complete response (pCR), which is (ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01272037) are awaited.
an absence of cancer cells in the surgical specimen after Second- generation GES assays (Prosigna and
treatment, to pre-s urgical treatment has prognostic value Endopredict) can be performed de- centrally on dedi-
(such as in HER2-positive disease or TNBC129). Moreover, cated instruments. These assays have level of evidence
systemic therapy can be given after surgery (adjuvant) if Ib for prognosis in patients with ER- positive, HER2-
the surgical result or biomarkers indicate increased risk negative breast cancer treated with endocrine therapy136;
of recurrence. For systemic therapies, many biomarkers the lower evidence level is attributed to retrospective
validation only. Indeed, the results generated from retro-
spective analysis of trials in which patients had only
Box 5 | Inflammatory breast cancer
been treated with endocrine therapy need to be inter-
Inflammatory breast cancer is a rare and aggressive-s tage (stage T4d) phenotype of preted with caution when applied to patients at high
breast cancer encompassing ~3% of newly diagnosed breast tumours characterized clinical risk who would normally require chemotherapy.
by a substantial involvement of dermal lymphatics of the breast skin. The diagnosis is In addition to early relapse risk, these assays also pre-
clinical with rapid evolution of de novo erythema (redness of the skin), ‘peau d’orange’
dict late recurrences, information that may be used to
(dimpled texture) and/or warm swollen breast involving at least one-t hird of the breast
indicate extended adjuvant endocrine therapy. Finally,
skin with or without a clinical breast mass319. Patients should undergo skin biopsy to
GESs have no role in treatment decision-m aking in cases
identify dermal lymphatic emboli that are found in <75% of cases and tumour biopsies
of very low clinico- pathological risk (such as patients
in case of identifiable mass319. This cancer type has to be differentiated from secondary
inflammatory breast cancer (that is, the development of inflammatory skin changes that with pT1a–b, pN0, G1 and high ER disease) or if clinico-
mimic primary inflammatory breast cancer either in a breast that already had cancer or pathological factors all point into the same direction
on the chest wall after a mastectomy for non-i nflammatory breast cancer) and from (that is, towards low-r isk or towards high-r isk disease).
locally advanced breast cancer (that is, breast cancer that has extended to the chest
wall (stage T4a), that has ulceration, ipsilateral satellite skin nodules or skin oedema Early breast cancer
(including peau d’orange; stage T4b) or both (stage T4c)). Inflammatory breast cancer is Locoregional therapy in early breast cancer regardless
associated with high body mass index, younger age at diagnosis, higher tumour grade
of molecular subtype comprises surgery to remove
and oestrogen receptor-n egative and/or human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-
the tumour and to either stage the axillary tumour
positive status, and is more frequent in north African or African-A merican women320.
burden or excise the affected axillary lymph nodes.
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 13
0123456789();
Primer
Postoperative radiation therapy and/or systemic ther- Surgery. Surgery of the primary tumour remains a corner-
apies (which may comprise endocrine therapy, chemo- stone of curative breast cancer treatment. Over the past
therapy, targeted therapy and bone- modifying agents) decades, breast conservation has become the primary
are usually given depending on the initial tumour bur- surgical goal137, substituting mastectomy, which was
den and molecular expression pattern of the tumour. the historical standard (Fig. 7). Resection of the primary
Tumour down- sizing with systemic therapies prior to breast tumour is either the first step of treatment or sec-
surgery is also encouraged for large tumours provided ond, after initial systemic therapy depending on tumour
that the same systemic therapy would also be indicated size, tumour to breast size relationship, tumour biology,
after surgery. Figure 6 summarizes the therapeutic comorbidities and patient choice138. After neoadjuvant
strategies for early breast cancer. systemic therapy, the surgical extent should be oriented
Table 2 | Biomarkers validated for therapy decision-m aking
Biomarker Method and threshold Use LOE
ER IHC; positive if ≥1% • Essential for the characterization of the IHC luminal group I
• Poor prognostic marker if negative
• Predictive marker for endocrine treatment
• Mandatory for endocrine treatment prescription
PR IHC; positive if ≥1% • If negative, tumour classified as IHC luminal B I
• Strong poor prognostic marker if negative
• Predictive marker for endocrine treatment
HER2 • IHC; positive if >10% complete • Essential to characterize HER2-enriched (ER-n egative) disease and I (IHC)
membrane staining (3+) luminal B, HER2-positive and I (ISH)
• Single-p robe ISH; positive if HER2 • Prognostic marker
≥6 copies • Predictive marker for anti-H ER2 treatment
• Dual-p robe ISH; positive if HER2 • Mandatory for anti-H ER2 therapy
and CEP17 ≥2 and HER2 ≥4 copies,
or HER2 and CEP17 <2 and HER2
≥6 copies
Ki67 IHC; no final consensus on cut-o ff Absence of international consensus for scoring and threshold I
value but values <10% are considered
Prognostic value in ER-p ositive, HER2-negative tumours (primary I
low and >30% are considered higha
tumours and post-n eoadjuvant tumour residues)
Absence of prognostic value in HER2-positive disease or TNBC I
Predictive of response to neoadjuvant endocrine therapya I
Predictive of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy Expert
opinion
If elevated, chemotherapy is often prescribed in ER-p ositive, Expert
HER2-negative tumours opinion
Part of the IHC definition of luminal tumours whereby when Ki67 is low, Expert
luminal A tumour likely and when Ki67 high, luminal B tumour likely opinion
Intrinsic subtypes Gene expression profile, N-C ounter Prognostic II and III
technology
Predictive; different responses to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and I
anti-H ER2 therapy according to subtype
First- generation Gene expression profile, RT-P CR • Prognostic for ER-p ositive, HER2-negative tumours (with 0–3 Ia
signatures (MammaPrint involved lymph nodes)
and OncotypeDx) • Chemotherapy is indicated if high risk or high score
Second- generation N- Counter technology, RT- PCR • Prognostic for ER-p ositive, HER2-negative tumours (with 0–3 Ib
signatures (Prosigna involved lymph nodes), include T size and N status in their final score
and Endopredict) • Chemotherapy is indicated if high risk or high score
PIK3CA mutations Mutations detected by PCR or NGS Predictive marker for specific PI3KCA inhibitors (such as alpelisib) Ia284
in exons 9 or 20 from cancer biopsy in luminal A and luminal B metastatic breast cancer
specimen or liquid biopsies
Germline BRCA NGS on blood lymphocytes or on • Predictive marker for PARP inhibitors in metastatic breast cancer Ia30
mutation tumour cells (evidence-b ased for HER2-negative disease)
• Germline mutations imply family counselling
• Predictive impact of somatic mutations is under evaluation
PD- L1 IHC; positive if expression in immune Predictive for immunotherapy with atezolizumab combined with Ia249
cells ≥1% in tumour specimens nab-p aclitaxel in TNBC
(metastatic or primary)
CEP17 , chromosome enumeration probe 17; ER , oestrogen receptor ; HER2, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2; IHC, immunohistochemistry ; ISH, in situ
hybridization; LOE, level of evidence; N, node; NGS, next-g eneration sequencing; PARP, poly(ADP-r ibose) polymerase; PD-L 1, programmed cell death 1 ligand 1;
PR , progesterone receptor ; RT-P CR , PCR with reverse transcription; T, tumour ; TNBC, triple- negative breast cancer. Data from reFs111,128,225. aAccording to the
International Ki67 Working Group Guidelines114.
14 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
Early breast cancer
Luminal A-like Luminal B-like Triple-negative HER2+
(ER+ and/or PR+, (ER+ and/or PR+, (ER–, PR– and HER2–) (luminal-like or non-luminal-like)
HER2– and HER2– and
low proliferation) high proliferation)
If pT1, pN0 If ≥T2, N0 or if N+
Chemotherapy preferred in Chemotherapy preferred in neoadjuvant setting
Surgery with neoadjuvant setting Anthracycline–taxane sequence (or docetaxel and
or without Anthracycline–taxane sequence carboplatin) plus dual HER2-blockade (trastuzumab
adjuvant (platinum agent may be added) and pertuzumab)
radiation
therapy
High risk of recurrence
No Yes If non-pCR If pCR If non-pCR
Chemotherapy
(neoadjuvant or adjuvant) Chemotherapy Complete anti-HER2 therapy
Endocrine Anthracycline–taxane sequence, Chemotherapy Adjuvant paclitaxel for 1 year
therapy or docetaxel and cyclophosphamide Adjuvant and trastuzumab If HR– or N+, dual HER2-blockade;
alone (if low tumour burden (pN0–1)) capecitabine for 1 year all other cases, trastuzumab T-DM1
In all luminal-like tumours: adjuvant endocrine therapy (minimum 5 years; if high-risk, extended for up to 7–10 years)a
• Premenopausal women: tamoxifen; if high-risk: GnRH analogue and tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitor
• Postmenopausal women: aromatase inhibitor and/or tamoxifen upfront or in sequence with each other
• Under investigation: CDK4/6 inhibitor plus endocrine therapy
In postmenopausal women or premenopausal women receiving ovarian suppression
• Consider adjuvant bisphosphonates
Fig. 6 | Algorithm for early breast cancer. Management of early breast cancer is based on tumour burden and subtype.
All patients with oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive disease receive adjuvant endocrine therapy after surgery. If patients are
at high risk of recurrence (for example, owing to high-r isk gene expression signature results with 0–3 involved lymph nodes,
involvement of ≥4 lymph nodes or a >10% risk of breast cancer-s pecific mortality at 10 years)130, chemotherapy needs to
be recommended as well. In triple-n egative and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive early breast
cancer, neoadjuvant subtype-s pecific systemic therapy is standard, followed by surgery. In the case that pathological
complete response (pCR) is not achieved, systemic therapy can be escalated. Bisphosphonates are an additional adjuvant
therapy option for all postmenopausal patients and premenopausal patients receiving ovarian suppression; they also
conserve bone density. If indicated, radiation therapy can be administered after surgery. The management algorithm takes
evidence-b ased registered therapy options into account. Availability and reimbursement of individual diagnostic or
therapeutic options may differ regionally and require adjustments of the treatment concepts outlined here. −, negative;
+, positive; GnRH, gonadotropin-r eleasing hormone; HR , hormone receptor ; p, pathological; PR , progesterone receptor ;
N, node status; T, tumour grade; T-D M1, ado-t rastuzumab emtansine. aOne study showed a benefit with 15 years of adjuvant
endocrine therapy328.
at the ‘new’ tumour borders139. Recently, the discussion this success; in general, prophylactic mastectomy does
about the optimal margin width has come to a close not improve overall survival147 in patients without
with a global consensus140,141 that no ink on tumour is BRCA germline mutations. Indeed, in young women
the appropriate surgical strategy121. Frozen sections, in <40 years of age, breast-c onserving surgery plus whole-
which the margins of the resected specimen are assessed breast radiation therapy renders equivalent overall
during the surgical procedure, can assist the surgeon to survival compared with mastectomy148. If mastectomy
optimize the resection extent142, but are not available is oncologically required, breast reconstruction can be
everywhere due to resource limitations143. offered as an immediate or delayed procedure depend-
Indeed, breast- conserving surgery has been made ing on the oncological situation and patient preference.
possible by the widespread use of neoadjuvant systemic Reconstructive techniques comprise implant surgery as
therapy to downsize tumours and the development of well as autologous tissue breast reconstruction.
advanced oncoplastic techniques144, such as the ‘round- As axillary dissection results in considerable morbid-
block’ procedure145 (a volume displacement technique ity (despite effectively achieving locoregional control)149,
for reconstruction) or the V-m ammoplasty146 (in which efforts to de- escalate nodal assessment have been suc-
a V- shaped wedge is cut around the tumour up to the cessfully implemented in several pivotal clinical trials150.
point of the nipple and the breast is ‘closed’ together). Sentinel node biopsy, in which at least one sentinel
However, an increasing rate of so-called pro phylactic lymph node is identified and removed (Fig. 7), is asso-
mastectomies (in which ‘healthy’ breasts are removed for ciated with no or almost no risk of arm lymphoedema,
prevention because of fear of the disease) is undermining shoulder mobility restrictions, numbness or axillary web
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 15
0123456789();
Primer
Radiation therapy. Postoperative radiation therapy
a b
improves disease- free and overall survival for patients
with early breast cancer with lymph node involvement
and/or in the framework of breast- conserving therapy,
either by the elimination of residual tumour cells158,159
and/or by the induction of an abscopal effect160. The
proportional reduction of locoregional recurrences with
radiation therapy following surgery is, for most indica-
tions, ~75%, with a dose–effect relationship for local
c d control161. However, the benefits in terms of any recur-
rences, including distant metastases, show a complex
interaction with the risk factors of the primary tumour
and the effectiveness of the adjuvant systemic therapy162.
On the basis of risk factors for the development of dis-
tant metastases, primary or adjuvant systemic treatment,
including endocrine therapy, chemotherapy and targeted
treatments, can be prescribed. These treatments interact
Fig. 7 | Breast-c onserving surgery. Current surgical standards of care for breast- in a positive way with the benefits of locoregional treat-
conserving surgery not only preserve the organ but also maintain the patient’s self-i mage, ments such as radiation therapy: for patients with high-
femininity and integrity compared with mastectomy (panel a; post mastectomy , 8 weeks risk disease, effective systemic treatments will decrease
after surgery). Selection factors for breast-c onserving surgery include tumour to breast the risk of distant metastases, thereby increasing the
size relationship, number of tumours, tumour biology and the patient’s preference (after importance of optimizing locoregional treatments to
adequate information). Even complex surgical situations can be managed with satisfying obtain definitive cancer cure.
aesthetic results (panel b; breast-c onserving surgery for cancer of the left breast, 6 weeks
Modern regional lymph node radiation therapy
after surgery) with modern oncoplastic techniques. In cases in which mastectomy is
improves disease outcome without increasing non-
inevitable (for example, insufficient downstaging after neoadjuvant systemic therapy),
breast-cancer- related mortality158,159,163–165. Generally,
the procedure should be (in terms of surgical technique) undertaken with the option of
patients with large tumours (>5 cm)166 with extensive
subsequent reconstructive procedures in mind; that is, unnecessary ‘invasiveness’ (affecting
the muscle, blood vessels and skin) should be avoided whenever oncologically safe clear lymph node involvement (>3 axillary nodes), or in the
margins can be achieved. In situations in which nipple-s paring mastectomy (panel c; nipple- presence of other unfavourable risk factors, receive
sparing mastectomy of the left breast with immediate transverse musculocutaneous gracilis lymph node radiation therapy; however, no consensus
flap reconstruction, 8 weeks after surgery with correction of the right side still pending) and has been reached on the use of lymph node radiation
or skin-s paring mastectomy are indicated (for example, extensive ductal carcinoma in situ or therapy in lower-r isk patients, including those with 1–3
risk-r educing surgery in women with germline BRCA mutations), complete counselling involved axillary lymph nodes162,167,168. The Early Breast
about all available strategies (autologous or alloplastic, immediate or delayed, modified
Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group (EBCTCG) meta-
radical versus skin-s paring versus nipple-s paring mastectomy) should be provided to the
analysis of clinical trials evaluating regional lymph node
patient. d | Another effort to reduce the potential harms of breast cancer surgery includes
radiation therapy, as presented at the San Antonio Breast
substituting axillary node dissection (removal) with sentinel node biopsy. In this technique,
Cancer Symposium in December 2018, showed a statis-
a dye is injected intraoperatively (and/or a radioactive tracer pre-o peratively) to identify the
sentinel node (arrows) so that it can be identified and removed. tically significant benefit for breast cancer- related and
overall mortality that was greatest in patients with ≥4
involved axillary lymph nodes169. Thus, as we await the
syndrome (whereby rope- like soft- tissue density can outcome of the MRC/EORTC (BIG 2–04) SUPREMO
develop in the axilla after dissection)151 and is asso- phase III trial170 (which is assessing the value of chest
ciated with excellent long- term locoregional relapse wall irradiation in intermediate-r isk patients with breast
rates152. A multitude of clinical research questions about cancer) and further optimize the technical aspects of
technology, detection strategies and tracers, proce- radiation therapy171–173, we must explain the option
dural splitting in the context of neoadjuvant systemic of postmastectomy irradiation to patients with less
therapy and others are currently being intensely dis- advanced disease as well. Additionally, several studies
cussed, but overall they all convey the benefit of surgical have shown that completion of axillary surgery after a
de-escalation to patients without gross nodal disease sentinel node biopsy confirmed nodal involvement does
involvement153. not improve outcome in women with early breast can-
In the context of neoadjuvant therapy, sentinel node cer compared with axillary nodal irradiation; instead,
biopsy is performed after the systemic therapy to enable regional nodal radiation therapy can improve outcomes
the patient to benefit from locoregional tumour down- in selected patients and is increasingly being used
staging. Whether ‘escalation’ of radiation therapy ‘com- instead of axillary surgery163–165,174.
pensates’ for less invasive axillary surgery is less clear For patients with low- risk features — based on
and may at least partly erase the benefits of the surgical tumour size, grade, nodal involvement, age and mol-
de- escalation154. Currently, the indications for sentinel ecular profile — radiation therapy after local excision
node biopsy include situations after neoadjuvant sys- offers, for the same relative risk reduction, lower abso-
temic therapy155, but other surgical issues remain under lute benefits. This is especially the case if local treatments
discussion in this special context156. More recently, it has are followed by adjuvant endocrine treatment, further
been suggested that not all patients with limited sentinel reducing the absolute benefits in terms of local control
node metastasis require further axillary dissection145,157. and overall survival174. However, trials that included a
16 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
treatment arm that omitted both radiation and endo- Decreasing the burden of radiation therapy can be
crine therapy demonstrated that long- term recurrence achieved by several means, starting with the strict adap-
rates without any postoperative treatment were too high tation of volume- based radiation therapy techniques
and that both radiation and endocrine therapy reduced using anatomically defined contouring guidelines to
local recurrence rates to a similar extent, with an addi- improve the dose coverage of the risk- bearing tissues
tive effect if both treatments were combined175. Although while simultaneously decreasing the size of the irradi ated
these trials only reported outcomes in terms of disease volumes174,180. This approach facilitates a broad adapta-
recurrence and survival, without an evaluation of the tion of hypofractionated radiation therapy that shortens
quality of life, and the benefit derived from adjuvant the duration of a radiation therapy series from typically
endocrine therapy for these patients is very low, the 5 weeks to ~3 weeks using fewer but slightly higher-
findings reignited the debate concerning (the omission dosed fractions combined with a reduced numeri cal
of) treatment in low-r isk patients. but radiobiologically- equivalent dose181–183. Another
Patients who receive primary systemic therapy approach to shorten the duration of the radiation ther-
(typically those with locoregionally advanced disease apy series, to lower the risks of developing fibrosis and
but increasingly those with early- stage breast cancer) to reduce unfavourable cosmetic outcomes is applying
pose a clinical challenge for the indications and pre- more restrictive indications for boost dose delivery to
scription of radiation therapy. On the basis of results the primary tumour bed after breast- conserving ther-
from retro spective evaluation of prospective clinical apy174,184. Finally, (accelerated) partial breast irradiation is
trials176–178, current international clinical guidelines166,179 now an accepted treatment for selected patients with low-
recommend that radiation therapy should be given risk features for local recurrence that not only reduces
based on the risk factors present at initial diagnosis, the irradiated volume but can also shorten the radiation
taking into account the response to primary systemic therapy series to 1–2 weeks or even a single intraoper-
therapy. Until the results from prospective trials exam- ative dose delivery during the surgical procedure185,186.
ining the role of radiation therapy in these patients, However, a careful evaluation and interpretation187,188
including ALLIANCE A011202 (NCT01901094) and of the literature is necessary to select the most appro-
NSABP B-51/RTOG1304 (NCT01872975), become priate radiation therapy strategy from the wide range of
available, it is recommended that a radiation oncologist treatment techniques available, including intraoperative
is involved in treatment planning before initiation of techniques using electrons189 or low- energy photons190
primary systemic therapy. This approach will not only (which has an insufficient reported follow-u p duration of
optimize target volume selection and dose prescription, 27 months). With all these optimizations of all aspects
but will also facilitate the making of CT scans dedicated of radiation therapy in breast cancer, the adverse effects
for radiation therapy for later image co- registration, can be reduced without compromising outcome (Fig. 8).
which is of utmost importance to deliver precision
radiation therapy following remission on imaging and Systemic therapy. Systemic therapies for early breast can-
subsequent surgery. cer are highly effective, and adjuvant endocrine therapy
and adjuvant chemotherapy are able to decrease breast
cancer mortality by approximately one- third indepen-
Dose (%) dent of each other191,192. However, the individual indica-
107.3
tion depends on the molecular subtype, tumour burden
105.0 and absolute risk of recurrence. Chemotherapy can be
102.5 given before (neoadjuvant) or after (adjuvant) surgery
100.0 with equivalent effects on outcomes, as first demon-
97.5 strated by the NSABP-B 18 trial193. Neoadjuvant applica-
tion is preferred if reduction of tumour size is warranted
95.0
for optimal surgical results or to assess the response of
92.5
the tumour in vivo. In certain subtypes (HER2-positive
90.0 breast cancers and TNBCs), neoadjuvant administration
87.5 has become the standard of care as the pCR is correlated
85.0 with patient outcome and adjuvant therapy choice may
82.5 differ based on the pCR status.
In luminal early breast cancer (that is, all ER-p ositive
80.0
and/or PR-p ositive tumours), adjuvant endocrine therapy
77.0
is standard for at least 5 years after surgery. In premeno-
Fig. 8 | Radiation therapy for breast cancer. The schematic illustrates the volumetric pausal patients, tamoxifen (which binds to and inhibits
intensity-m odulated dose distribution at the level of the original tumour location,
ER) is standard; in high-r isk premenopausal patients who
including a simultaneous integrated boost dose for a patient with early-s tage disease
also received adjuvant chemotherapy, adding ovarian
who had a medially located primary tumour bed in the right breast. The blue colour
suppression with a gonadotropin- releasing hormone
wash represents a 50-Gy-e quivalent dose, prescribed to the entire breast; the red
(GnRH) analogue (which inhibits oestradial produc-
colour wash represents the 10–16-Gy-e quivalent dose to the high-r isk zone at the
primary tumour bed. The white dot in the middle of the colour wash represents tion) to tamoxifen improves DFS and overall survival
the surgical clip left behind to guide the identification of the original tumour location. compared with tamoxifen alone, as demonstrated by the
This treatment typically causes mild and temporary skin reactions and possibly leads to joint analysis of the SOFT and TEXT trials194. A GnRH
late development of fibrosis at the primary tumour site that received the boost dose. analogue plus an aromatase inhibitor also improves
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 17
0123456789();
Primer
recurrence-f ree survival compared with tamoxifen alone In HER2-positive early breast cancer (that is, luminal-
or compared with tamoxifen plus a GnRH analogue, like and non- luminal-like HER2-positive early breast
but at the expense of higher toxicity; however, regard- cancer), neoadjuvant chemotherapy together with anti-
ing overall survival, tamoxifen plus a GnRH analogue HER2 therapy has become the standard of care (at least
seems more beneficial194,195. In postmenopausal women in tumours ≥cT2, cN0 and all cN+). This approach is pre-
with luminal early breast cancer, tamoxifen and an aro- ferred as achievement of pCR is correlated with improved
matase inhibitor are standard either as monotherapies outcome (DFS and overall survival)129 and adjuvant ther-
(upfront) or in sequence. An aromatase inhibitor should apy selection may be influenced by pCR status. In the neo-
be included in adjuvant endocrine therapy to reduce adjuvant setting, dual HER2-blockade with trastuzumab
recurrence rates compared with tamoxifen (albeit with and pertuzumab together with chemotherapy improves
only minor impact on overall survival). Compared rates of pCR and is, therefore, considered standard206.
with tamoxifen, 5 years of an aromatase inhibitor reduces Based on data from the adjuvant setting, chemotherapy
breast cancer mortality by ~15% (relative benefit)196. in HER2-positive early breast cancer may consist of either
The definite choice of agent depends on the relapse risk, an anthracycline–taxane sequence or a combination of
tolerability, bone health and patient preference. docetaxel and carboplatin together with anti- HER2
After 5 years of endocrine therapy, recurrences still therapy (for 1 year). The KATHERINE trial demon-
occur in patients with luminal early breast cancer over strated for the first time that pCR status can be used to
at least 20 years, at a rate strongly dependent on the escalate postoperative anti- HER2 therapy: switching
initial tumour burden197. Extended adjuvant endocrine from trastuzumab (an anti- HER2 antibody) to T- DM1
therapy for up to 10 years, or even 15 years, imparts (a trastuzumab–emtansine conjugate that combines
favourable patient outcomes198. Nevertheless, the deci- HER2-blockade with a cytotoxic agent) in the case of non-
sion for such an approach needs to take relapse risk and pCR significantly and substantially improved outcomes
tolerability into account; extended adjuvant endocrine (HR 0.5 for invasive DFS; 95% CI 0.39–0.64, P < 0.001)207
therapy is particularly beneficial for patients at high and will now be the new standard for patients with
risk for relapse (that is, those with node- positive dis- non-p CR. In the adjuvant setting, dual HER2-blockade
ease). Several randomized phase III trials have shown with trastuzumab and pertuzumab also improves DFS
CDK4/6 inhibitors (which block cell cycling) to be active compared with trastuzumab alone. After short- term
and they have become the preferred treatment option follow-u p, absolute 3-year survival differences are small
in combination with endocrine therapy in hormone and patients with node- positive or hormone receptor-
receptor- positive, HER2-negative metastatic breast negative tumours seem to benefit most208. In patients who
cancer199–201. Currently, four large international adju- had already received 1 year of trastuzumab, an additional
vant trials are evaluating addition of a CDK4/6 inhib- 1 year of neratinib (versus placebo) improved invasive
itor to endocrine therapy for 2–3 years in patients with DFS with the effect being most pronounced in in hor-
intermediate to high-r isk luminal HER2-negative early mone receptor-p ositive, HER2-positive disease (HR 0.73;
breast cancer. PALLAS (NCT02513394) and monarchE 95% CI 0.57–0.92, P = 0.0083)209. However, the additional
(NCT03155997) have already completed recruitment; value of neratinib in the context of adjuvant dual block-
NATALEE (NCT03701334) and ADAPTcycle (EudraCT ade or post-n eoadjuvant T-D M1 is not clear. In patients
2018-003749-40) are still recruiting. with a low tumour burden, de- escalation seems possi-
In luminal HER2-negative early breast cancer, the ble; adjuvant administration of paclitaxel and 1 year
recommendation for chemotherapy in addition to endo- of trastuzumab is correlated with excellent outcomes
crine therapy depends on the individual risk of recur- in patients with pN0 HER2-positive tumours ≤3 cm in
rence. In general, if the risk of recurrence is estimated to size210,211. So far, 1-year total duration of anti-HER2 ther-
be >10% over 10 years, chemotherapy is recommended. apy remains the standard for all patients as the data on
Standard chemotherapy regimens include an anthracy- shor ter duration are still controversial; the PERSEPHONE
cline and a taxane given preferentially in sequence with trial212 demonstrated non-inferiority of 6 months of
care to avoid excessive toxicity202. 5-Fluorouracil does trastuzumab compared with 12 months for patients
not increase efficacy of an anthracycline and cyclophos- receiving anthracycline–taxane, whereas others studies,
phamide backbone in early breast cancer203. In patients such as PHARE213 and SOLD214, have failed to prove this
with intermediate clinical risk, docetaxel plus cyclo- non-inferiority. Longer than 1 year of duration is no
phosphamide is not inferior to a standard sequential more effective, as demonstrated by the HERA trial215,216.
anthracycline–taxane regimen135. However, in patients In TNBC, chemotherapy is standard and typically con-
with high clinical risk (that is, >3 involved lymph tains an anthracycline and a taxane, although docetaxel
nodes), an anthracycline–taxane regimen seems to be and cyclophosphamide are as effective135 — at least in
superior204. Dose- dense administration of chemother- TNBC with limited disease burden — and may be used
apy (in which the rate of delivery, rather than the overall if anthracyclines need to be avoided. As with HER2-
dose, is increased) significantly improves 10-year breast positive early breast cancer, chemotherapy is preferentially
cancer- related mortality independent of ER status and administered in the neoadjuvant setting. Achievement of
tumour burden without any detectable adverse effects a pCR is correlated with improved outcome (DFS and
on non- breast-cancer- related mortality205. Adding drugs, overall survival)129; a platinum compound increases pCR
such as capecitabine, gemcitabine or bevacizumab, to an rates independent of BRCA status217. Adding a platinum
anthracycline–taxane chemotherapy does not improve compound also increases toxicity (mostly haematologi-
outcomes in early breast cancer. cal), which may impair adequate taxane dose intensity.
18 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
Whether adding platinum also improves outcome in tumour biology or type of bisphosphonate therapy223. In
addition to pCR is still under debate as a DFS advantage premenopausal women receiving ovarian suppression,
was shown in the GeparSixto trial but not in the CALGB zoledronic acid also improved DFS in the ABCSG-12
40603 trial217,218. In the case of non-p CR, treatment esca- trial195, but there is no clear advantage for premenopau-
lation with additional adjuvant chemotherapy is feasible sal women in other trials such as AZURE224 as well as in
in HER2-negative early breast cancer, as demonstrated the EBCTCG meta-a nalysis223.
by the CREATEx trial; additional adjuvant capecitabine
improved DFS and overall survival, with the survival Advanced breast cancer
benefit being most pronounced in TNBC219. Advanced breast cancer comprises inoperable locally
Finally, bone-m odifying agents such as bisphospho- advanced breast cancer, which has not spread to distant
nates or the RANK- L antibody denosumab not only organs, and metastatic (stage IV) breast cancer; common
improve bone mineral density and decrease treatment- sites of spread are bone, the lungs and the liver (Fig. 9)225.
related bone loss but may also improve patient outcomes. Currently, it is a treatable but virtually incurable dis-
However, the data on denosumab in early breast cancer ease, with metastases being the cause of death in almost
are controversial. Although it is effective in lowering all patients, and a median overall survival of 2–3 years225.
fracture rates in postmenopausal patients receiving adju- Patients with metastatic breast cancer receive treatments
vant aromatase inhibitors220, its use may also improve that aim to relieve their symptoms and to prolong
DFS in selected postmenopausal patients221 but not in a quality- adjusted life expectancy. Generally, local treat-
more general breast cancer population as demonstrated ments are not the mainstay of advanced breast cancer
by the negative phase III D-C ARE trial222. By contrast, an treatment but are very useful in some situations, such
EBCTCG meta- analysis (n > 18,000) showed that adju- as brain and bone metastases. Multidisciplinary evalu-
vant bisphosphonates improve DFS, distant DFS and ation of the complex interaction between the contribu-
breast cancer mortality (HR 0.82; 95% CI 0.73–0.93, tions of systemic and locoregional treatments to the final
P = 0.002) in postmenopausal patients independent of outcome (such as survival and toxicity) will ultimately
Brain (12.6%) Supraclavicular lymph
• HER2+ (30%) nodes (1–4%)
• Basal-like (25%)
• Luminal A (<10%)
Mammary internal chain
• Luminal B (10–15%)
lymph nodes (10–40%)
Axillary lymph nodes Lungs (36.9%)
(30–50%) • HER2+ (45%)
• Luminal A-like • Basal-like (35%)
• Luminal B-like • Luminal B (30%)
• HER2+ • Luminal A (25%)
Primary breast cancer Contralateral breast (6%)
Liver (40.8%)
Bone (67%)
• TNBC and HER2+ more
• Luminal B (79%)
frequent than luminal
• Luminal A (70%)
• HER2+ (45%)
• HER2+ (60%)
• Basal-like (35%)
• Basal-like (40%)
• Luminal A (25%)
• Luminal B (30%)
Peritoneal metastasis (10%)
• Lobular carcinoma (up to Lymphatic spread
40% of peritoneal and Haematogenous spread
ovarian metastasis) Direct or lymphatic spread
Fig. 9 | Common metastatic sites in breast cancer. The most frequent nodal site is the axillary lymph nodes and the
frequency of involvement depends on the size of the tumour. 10–40% of breast cancers have metastasis in the internal
mammary chain, influenced by the topography of the tumour in the breast (inner quadrant versus outer quadrant and the
size). Controversy abounds with regard to the value of staging and treatment of these nodes, for example, whether or not
they need to be dealt with surgically or by radiation therapy. Breast cancer hones to distant metastatic sites differentially
according to the molecular subtype according to data from the US Surveillance, Epidemiology , and End Results Program
(SEER) database (data from 2010 to 2014, 295,213 patients with invasive breast cancer). Locoregional lymphatic spread is
less frequent in triple-n egative breast cancer (TNBC) than in other subtypes. The opposite is true for brain metastases,
which are more frequent in TNBC than luminal tumours. Additionally , metastatic disease occurs at different time points in
the natural history ; for example, luminal A cancers typically show late metastatic occurrence (5–10 years after diagnosis)
and long survival is possible. By contrast, basal-l ike subtypes usually metastasize within 2 years, and long survival durations
are uncommon. The percentage of metastases found at that site are shown in parentheses. +, positive; HER2, human
epidermal growth factor receptor 2. Based on data from reF.81.
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 19
0123456789();
Primer
reduce the risk of dying due to distant metastasis162. immune response, which can be achieved with radiation
De novo metastatic disease (which presents as metastatic therapy, among others. This could be of future interest
at initial diagnosis) and recurrent metastatic disease for all patients with high-r isk disease.
(which presents after initial diagnosis and treatment of
early breast cancer) are somewhat different biologically Systemic therapies. Given the rapidly evolving nature of
and some differences exist in management. Recurrent systemic therapies and regimens in this setting, here we
disease is more aggressive and more resistant to therapy, focus on approved therapies. As in the early setting, sys-
whereas de novo metastatic disease poses the problem of temic therapy is guided by biology (Fig. 10); the relative
how to treat the primary tumour. distribution of subtypes in the metastatic setting is sim-
ilar to that in the early setting243. Biopsy and assessment
Surgery. In patients with metastatic breast cancer, resec- of receptor status (ER and HER2 in particular; PR is less
tion of metastases remains controversial, but may be an relevant in the metastatic setting) at least once during
option for selected patients based on the pattern and the course of advanced breast cancer, preferentially at
metachronicity of the disease226. Although resection of first metastasis, can verify histology and assess potential
the primary tumour in de novo stage IV breast cancer changes in tumour biology from the primary tumour225.
has long been controversial based on retrospective series Multigene panels have not yet been proven useful in the
that had suggested some benefit227,228, three contempo- metastatic setting in clinical trials and are only research
rary prospective trials did not demonstrate any bene- tools225. Circulating tumour markers (of which cancer
fit229–231. Still, these findings may not be true for every antigen 15–3 (CA 15–3) is the most important protein
individual patient in the era of increasingly effective marker produced by breast cancer cells) alone should
systemic therapies232,233 and, in general, surgery of the not initiate a change in therapy, and progression must
primary tumour is not recommended although it may be confirmed by imaging225.
be discussed on a case- by-case basis for patients with For all luminal-l ike metastatic breast cancers, several
excellent responses to systemic therapy and a low burden lines of endocrine- based therapy should be used until
of distant disease225,234. Palliative surgery is also of impor- no response is obtained (endocrine resistance), unless
tant value in individual situations of locally advanced there is rapid progression or visceral crisis (severe
breast cancer to achieve adequate locoregional control, organ dysfunction) emerges225,244. For premenopausal
as well as a frequent treatment tool in resource-limited patients, ovarian suppression or ablation is required, in
environments235. addition to another endocrine therapy agent (tamoxifen,
an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant (a selective ER
Radiation therapy. Radiation therapy, which has a degrader))225,244. For postmenopausal patients, first-l ine
crucial role in alleviating symptoms from bone, brain endocrine therapy can be an aromatase inhibitor, fulves-
and soft tissue metastases, among others, should be trant or tamoxifen, depending on the adjuvant endocrine
prescribed in a multidisciplinary and individualized therapy received and the duration of DFS225,244.
approach with dose and fractionation schedules depend- When aiming at delaying or overcoming endocrine
ing on the severity of the lesions and the remaining life resistance, CDK4/6 inhibitors (palbociclib, ribociclib
expectancy236,237. For most patients with bone metastases, and abemaciclib) and mechanistic target of rapamycin
a single dose of 8 Gy is sufficient, as demonstrated in a (mTOR) inhibitors (everolimus) have been studied and
large prospective randomized trial238. This approach approved. Everolimus improves PFS by ±5 months but
provides sufficient tumour volume reduction for resto- not overall survival. CDK4/6 inhibitors substantially
ration of the invaded or compressed surrounding normal improve PFS (±10 months in the first line and ±5 months
structures. in the second line). Results from the PALOMA 3 phase III
The paradigm of not treating the primary tumour trial suggest that the PFS benefit may be maintained
is increasingly being challenged, particularly in cases as an overall survival benefit, but this finding was not
of only a limited number of metastases (currently set statistically significant245. The MONALEESA-7 study in
at 5). Radiation therapy might also induce a systemic premenopausal patients showed a significant prolong-
immune response, which may act on neighbouring ation of overall survival for first- line use of a CDK4/6
(bystander effect) or distantly located (abscopal effect) (ribociclib) in combination with ovarian suppression
non-irradiated tumour cells239. A population-based and an aromatase inhibitor or tamoxifen compared with
US Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program endocrine therapy alone (HR 0.71; 95% CI, 0.54–0.95,
(SEER) study (median follow-u p 98 months, n = 3,529) P = 0.00973). At 42 months, 70% of patients were still
showed that the 768 patients who received radiation alive in the ribociclib group compared with only 46%
therapy to the primary tumour demonstrated improved in the control group. In view of additional cardiac toxi-
overall survival (HR 0.80, P < 0.001); even after adjusting city with tamoxifen, ribociclib is only approved with an
for prognostic factors, the benefit of radiation therapy aromatase inhibitor (plus GnRH) in this setting.
remained significant (HR 0.86, P = 0.011)240,241. Even though the MONALEESA-7 data now suggest
This potentially important use of radiation therapy a survival advantage in the first-l ine setting for CDK4/6
in metastatic disease has spurred new research in the inhibitor therapy, the optimal sequence of therapies in
field of immunotherapy242. Most breast cancer types are metastatic disease is still unknown. When chemotherapy
non-inflamed, immune ‘cold’ tumours that are likely is needed (for example, once endocrine therapy options
unresponsive to immunotherapy. Thus, the micro- have been exhausted or if no response is obtained
environment needs to be primed to stimulate the with them), sequential use of monochemotherapy is
20 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
Advanced breast cancer
• Supportive, palliative and Luminal-like Triple-negative HER2+
psychosocial support from (ER+ and/or PR+, HER2–) (ER–, PR– and HER2–) (luminal-like or non-luminal-like)
the onset
• Evaluate extent of disease,
biopsy and assessment of ER
and HER2 status
Endocrine therapy with or without targeted If germline Chemotherapy First line
therapy: multiple sequencial lines are advised BRCA mutations • If >1% PD-L1 immune cell Dual blockade
• Premenopausal women: ovarian suppression or are present staining, nab-paclitaxel (trastuzumab and pertuzumab)
ablation plus another endocrine therapy plus atezolizumab is an and chemotherapy (for
• All patients: tamoxifen, an aromatase inhibitor or option in the first line example, taxane or vinorelbine)
fulvestrant in the first line or beyond • Platinum is a good option
• CDK4/6 inhibitors plus endocrine therapy have good PARP inhibitors • Other recommendations
tolerance and improve PFS (in the first and second • Triple-negative: similar to luminal-like
lines) and overall survival (in the first and second lines) first line metastatic breast cancer
• Everolimus plus endocrine therapy improves PFS with • Luminal-like:
acceptable toxicity (plus steroid mouthwashes) in the after endocrine
second line or beyond therapy
• Efficacy
Second line
compared with
T-DM1
If no more endocrine therapy-based options, platinum is
rapid progression or visceral crisis unknown
Chemotherapy
• Use sequential monotherapy
• Preferred first-line agents for patients pretreated with anthracycline and
taxane are capecitabine, vinorelbine or eribulin Later lines
• Anthracycline or taxane rechallenge possible (if ≥1 year from prior exposure) • Trastuzumab and chemotherapy
• In combination with a taxane or capecitabine chemotherapy, bevacizumab • Lapatinib and trastuzumab
(an anti-VEGF antibody) is an option in the first line • Lapatinib and capecitabine
• Many options are available for later lines, but the best sequence is unknown (less preferred)
Fig. 10 | Algorithm for advanced breast cancer. Management of advanced breast cancer with distant metastases should
be according to subtype as well as disease characteristics and patient preferences. Supportive, palliative and psychosocial
support are crucial from the time of diagnosis. Biopsy of a metastatic site and assessment of oestrogen receptor (ER),
progesterone receptor (PR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status, at least once in the metastatic
setting, are also necessary. Endocrine therapy , with or without targeted therapy , is the mainstay for luminal-l ike disease,
and — unless life-t hreatening — several lines are to be used before commencing chemotherapy. When chemotherapy is
used, sequential monotherapy is advised. For triple-n egative disease, chemotherapy is the main treatment, with no
specific recommendations except that platinum is one of the preferred options. Triple-n egative tumours with immune
cells expressing programmed death-l igand 1 (PD-L 1) may be candidates for first-l ine immunotherapy. For HER2-positive
disease, it is crucial to continue blocking the HER2 pathway , with a sequence of anti-H ER2 agents and chemotherapy ;
combinations of endocrine therapy with anti-H ER2 therapy can also be used in ER-p ositive, HER2-positive disease,
preferentially as maintenance therapy. For women harbouring germline BRCA mutations, poly(ADP-r ibose) polymerase
(PARP) inhibitors are an additional therapy option. The management algorithm takes evidence-b ased registered therapy
options into account. Availability and reimbursement of individual diagnostic or therapeutic options may differ regionally
and require adjustments of the treatment concepts outlined here. −, negative; +, positive; PFS, progression-f ree survival;
T-D M1, ado-t rastuzumab emtansine; VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor.
recommended; combination chemotherapy should be toxicity profiles, previous exposure, patient preferences,
reserved for situations of visceral crisis or rapidly pro- country availability and costs225. The duration of each
gressive disease225. The preferred first- line agents for regimen and the number of cycles should also be indi-
patients previously treated with adjuvant anthracyclines vidualized, and chemotherapy should be continued until
and taxanes are capecitabine, vinorelbine or eribulin. disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Again, the
Anthracycline and/or taxane rechallenge therapy may optimal sequence is unknown.
also be an option in patients with a treatment-f ree inter- For HER2-positive advanced breast cancer (including
val of ≥1 year. In combination with taxane or capecita- ER- positive and ER- negative, HER2-positive disease),
bine chemotherapy, bevacizumab (an antibody against anti- HER2 agents should be started early and contin-
vascular endothelial growth factor) is a first-l ine option ued beyond progression225,247. In patients previously
that improves PFS but not overall survival; it is registered untreated with trastuzumab, the preferred first- line
in Europe but not the United States246. For later lines of option is dual HER2-blockade with trastuzumab and
therapy, many available options are available and the pertuzumab plus chemotherapy (usually docetaxel, pac-
decision should be individualized considering different litaxel, nab-p aclitaxel, vinorelbine or capecitabine)225,247.
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 21
0123456789();
Primer
In patients previously exposed to adjuvant trastuzumab used selectively for staging or restaging255. Additional
(or those in countries without access to pertuzumab), organ- specific imaging in patients with metastatic
this regimen or trastuzumab plus chemotherapy (usu- breast cancer is reserved for symptom evaluation, and
ally vinorelbine or a taxane) can be used225. Second- for response monitoring when it complements clin-
line options include T- DM1, trastuzumab plus another ical evaluation and appropriate laboratory testing256.
chemotherapy agent (usually capecitabine, vinorelbine However, there is a paucity of good-q uality evidence on
or taxane (if not used previously), but also eribulin, the comparative effectiveness of imaging tests, and a lack
liposomal anthracyclines, platinum, gemcitabine or of data on optimal timing and frequency of monitoring
metronomic cyclophosphamide with methotrexate), and the effect that imaging monitoring has on patient
or trastuzumab plus lapatinib (a tyrosine kinase inhib- outcomes257. With these limitations in mind, either con-
itor that interrupts the HER2 and epidermal growth ventional imaging (CT, bone scan or MRI depending
factor receptor pathways)225,247. Combinations of trastu- on the site of metastases) or PET–CT may be used for
zumab plus chemotherapy are superior to lapatinib plus response monitoring; PET–CT has been reported to
chemotherapy. Sequential monochemotherapy should have equivalent or better accuracy in detecting treat-
be used225, although the optimal sequence of all avail- ment response compared with each of the conventional
able options is unknown. For HER2-positive, ER-positive imaging modalities257. PET–CT provides functional
disease, combinations of endocrine therapy and anti- information on tumour metabolism and, therefore, can
HER2 agents are possible both as initial treatment and potentially identify response at earlier time points during
as maintenance treatment225,247. treatment than the relatively delayed gross morpho logical
For TNBC, there are no different or specific chemo- changes defined by conventional imaging257. However, in
therapy recommendations for patients without BRCA many countries, the use of PET–CT is more expensive
mutations225,248. For BRCA-a ssociated advanced TNBC, than other imaging modalities.
a platinum agent is the preferred option. In these patients
and in those with BRCA- mutated luminal advanced Quality of life
breast cancer, recent data have shown improved PFS Treatment individualization is crucial and should con-
and improved quality of life with a PARP inhibitor sider patient- related and tumour- related factors. The
(olaparib or talazoparib) compared with monochemo- assessment of patient- reported outcomes related to
therapy30,31. In TNBC with >1% programmed cell toxicities and quality of life is increasingly recognized
death 1 ligand 1 (PD- L1) immune cell staining, nab- as an important component of oncology research to
paclitaxel plus atezoli zumab has shown significantly inform individualized clinical decision- making. Frank
superior PFS compared with nab-p aclitaxel alone in the discussion of the goals of treatment, using accessible lan-
first- line setting; although a numerical overall survival guage, is fundamental — as is appropriate psychosocial,
advantage (7–10 months) seems evident in the PD- L1 supportive and palliative care, from the initial diagnosis
immune cell- staining subgroup, final data on overall and through all stages of treatment. All patients should
survival are still awaited249. be discussed and managed by a multidisciplinary team.
Many breast cancer treatments cause substantial
Monitoring treatment response toxicities that can impair quality of life. Although most
In early breast cancer, imaging during neoadjuvant existing data on symptom management and quality of
chemotherapy may be used to guide tailored treatment life come from postmenopausal patients with early-
to improve rates of pCR and breast conservation in stage breast cancer, studying and managing adverse
both early responders and non- responders. Clinical effects is particularly important in patients with meta-
examination and ultrasonography have been used in static disease, who generally continue to take a given
clinical trials to monitor tumour size before and dur- systemic therapy until progression or excessive toxicity
ing neoadjuvant chemotherapy to inform a change in requires a change. Impact on quality of life is a critical
therapy during the regimen. Metabolic and functional consideration when weighing the risks and benefits of
imaging (PET, dynamic contrast- enhanced MRI or any breast cancer therapy, but especially for palliative
diffusion- weighted MRI) potentially enable earlier therapies. Indeed, the adverse effects of systemic thera-
assessment of response, but response criteria for these pies are numerous for most patients. Endocrine therapy
tests are not yet standardized250,251. After neoadjuvant frequently causes hot flashes, with tamoxifen and ovar-
chemotherapy, imaging can identify pCR and assist in ian suppression-b ased regimens known to be particularly
surgical planning. MRI accurately detects pCR after powerful hot-f lash inducers258,259. Management strategies
neoadjuvant chemotherapy252 and improves measure- for hot flashes include medications (such as serotonin–
ment of tumour size compared with ultrasonography, norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor venlafaxine and
mammography and clinical examination253. Studies also GABA analogue gabapentin) and mind–body techniques
show that PET performed after 1–2 cycles of neoadju- (such as hypnosis and acupuncture)260–262. Aromatase
vant chemotherapy can also predict treatment response inhibitors often produce arthralgias (joint pain), which
in patients with large operable and locally advanced are commonly treated with NSAIDs and exercise, but
breast cancer254. these strategies are not supported by strong evidence263.
In the metastatic setting, imaging of the chest (CT Aromatase inhibitors also cause vaginal dryness and dys-
or X-r ay), abdomen (CT or ultrasonography) and bone pareunia, for which vaginal moisturizers and lubricants
(usually radionuclide bone scan) is recommended225 for have been the traditional mainstays of management in
pretreatment staging, although PET or PET–CT may be patients with hormone- sensitive tumours, but novel
22 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
treatments such as vaginal dehydroepiandrosterone are In addition to impacting the symptom burden, breast
under study264. cancer treatments can burden patients financially and
Chemotherapy causes both acute toxicities (such psychosocially. Lost employment and cost of care can be
as nausea and fatigue) and chronic toxicities (such as economically challenging, and dealing with a potentially
infertility, cardiotoxicity, neuropathy and cognitive fatal diagnosis (including relying on friends and fam-
dysfunction). Cancer-r elated fatigue and cognitive dys- ily to help with, for example, transportation and home
function are difficult to treat, but nausea is now well- responsibilities) can be emotionally challenging. Clinical
managed in most patients using multi-a gent anti-e metic trials must take into account the effect of new drugs
regimens265. With regard to cardiotoxicity, the PRADA and treatment strategies on quality of life by collecting
study showed that carvedilol (a non-s elective adrenergic patient-r eported outcomes using validated instruments
receptor used to treat heart failure and hypertension) (TaBle 3). In addition, more research is needed to identify
may protect against asymptomatic anthracycline- effective supportive interventions both during and after
induced reductions in ejection fraction, which could active treatment.
translate into later improvements in quality of life
related to cardiac function266. In addition, the serotonin Outlook
and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor duloxetine has The impressive increase in knowledge in the field of
been definitively proven to treat (albeit with modest molecular biology and immunology has helped to elu-
benefit) chemotherapy- induced peripheral neurop- cidate the molecular characteristics of cancer and is
athy267,268, and ongoing research is assessing methods the basis for a plethora of upcoming drugs. However,
for prevention of chemotherapy- induced peripheral although important improvements have been achieved
neuropathy (including tactile stimulation, cryotherapy in recent years in terms of metastatic breast cancer out-
and acupuncture)269–271. With the development of new comes, more and better treatments are needed. Research
targeted therapies for breast cancer (see below, Outlook), that provides biological insights into overdiagnosis as
it will be important to study their effects on quality of a result of breast cancer screening or that mitigates its
life, and to develop management strategies for their asso- consequences through modified therapeutic approaches
ciated symptoms (for example, steroid mouthwashes for would also be valuable91. Nevertheless, one of the global
stomatitis from everolimus). challenges we face is the limited access to diagnosis and
Local therapies can also impair quality of life. affordable and effective treatment that leads to dispar-
Reduced use of full axillary dissection has limited the ities in cancer survival between countries. As one of
incidence and severity of lymphoedema in breast can- the most common cancers, breast cancer is a bustling
cer survivors, but some patients are still affected. Risk research field. Here, we summarize some of the emerg-
of lymphoedema is increased by obesity, more extensive ing findings that are likely to have the most impact on
axillary surgery, use of radiation therapy and, possibly, patients. However, we emphasize that the most pressing
chemotherapy272,273. Dermatitis and pneumonitis are global challenge in the breast cancer field is to ensure
other quality- of-life- limiting radiation toxicities, and that all patients have access to high- quality stan dard
both surgery and radiation therapy can produce acute diagnosis (imaging and pathology) and treatment
fatigue, chronic pain and cosmetic concerns274,275. (surgery, radiation and systemic therapy), avoid late
Table 3 | Validated measures of quality of life in breast cancer
Instrument Abbreviation Number Recall Notes
of itemsa periodb
Functional Assessment FACT- B 37 7 days • Copyright owned by David Cella
of Cancer Therapy • Permission details at http://www.facit.org/
— Breast334 FACITOrg
European Organization for EORTC QLQ- 53 1 week • QLQ-C 30 (30 items) can be used without the
Research and Treatment C30 and BR23 breast cancer-s pecific BR23 (23 items), but not
of Cancer Quality of Life vice versa
Questionnaire — Core • BR23 has been recently updated to BR45 (reF.336)
30 and Breast Cancer • Free
Module334,335 • Permission details at https://qol.eortc.org/
modules/
Short Form Health SF-36 36 4 weeks • Free, no need to obtain permission for use
Survey-36337 • Available at http://www.rand.org/health/
surveys_tools/mos/36-item- short-form.html
EuroQol 5-Dimensions338 EQ-5D 5 Today • Copyright held by EuroQol
• Permissions details at https://euroqol.org/
Patient- Reported PROMIS-10 10 7 days • Free, no need to obtain permission for use
Outcomes Measurement • Available at http://www.healthmeasures.net/
Information System339,340 explore- measurement-systems/promis
a‘Items’ refers to the questions a patient is asked to respond to as part of the survey. b‘Recall period’ refers to the time period over
which a patient is asked to reflect when answering a question.
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 23
0123456789();
Primer
diagnosis and are provided with adequate supportive as ESR1 or PIK3CA, are already becoming relevant for
and palliative care services. choosing specific targeted therapies.
Early breast cancer Advanced breast cancer
In early breast cancer, cancer-s pecific mortality has been Upcoming drugs and pathways. Recent preclinical stud-
substantially reduced by modern multimodal therapy ies have revealed various targetable pathways that may
concepts. Treatment de- escalation and escalation are optimize available therapies or overcome resistance to
currently being evaluated — in both loco regional and available drugs (Fig. 11). For example, the PI3K–AKT–
systemic therapies. However, evidence- based adap- mTOR signalling pathway is the subject of intense
tation of current standards is required to ensure that research in breast cancer. Pan-P I3K inhibitors proved to
patients are not undertreated while attempting to avoid be too toxic and their development was replaced by PI3K
overtreatment. De-e scalation of radiation therapy trials isoform- specific inhibitors such as alpelisib and taseli-
are attempting to define populations with luminal sib283. Alpelisib, an α- specific PI3K inhibitor, has been
A early breast cancer at low risk, for whom radiation approved by the FDA on the basis of the longest PFS
therapy after breast- conserving surgery may not be improvement of this class of agents so far (~5 months of
needed. Surgical de- escalation trials are examining the benefit in PFS, HR 0.65; 95% CI 0.50–0.85) in hormone-
role of sentinel node biopsy in cN0 disease, provided resistant ER-p ositive, HER2-negative PIK3CA- mutated
that standard postoperative therapy is being adminis- advanced breast cancer when combined with fulves-
tered. The neoadjuvant setting in early breast cancer trant, with moderate toxicity284. Taselisib, a β- sparing
offers an ideal model for in vivo response testing and PI3K inhibitor, moderately improves PFS in in the same
stratifying the postoperative approach according population when combined with fulvestrant in patients
to pCR. For example, patients with pCR may be able to with wild-t ype and with PI3K-m utant tumours but with
de- escalate postoperative adjuvant therapy whereas clinically relevant toxicities285. Recently, two randomized
patients with non- pCR are candidates for further ther- phase II studies have shown that AKT inhibitors can be
apy escalation. With regards to locoregional therapy, active in patients with TNBC. When the AKT path-
the role of surgery in cases of clinical complete response way was active, both ipatasertib286 and capivasertib287
(that is, whether it can be completely omitted) and the improved the activity of paclitaxel. In the phase II
role of postoperative radiation therapy in patients who FAKTION trial (NCT01992952)288, capivasertib was also
converted from node- positive to node- negative dis- active in combination with fulvestrant in luminal- like
ease with neoadjuvant systemic therapy (for example, metastatic breast cancer.
the aforementioned NSABP- B51/RTOG1304 trial) Drugs that inhibit histone deacetylases, which are
are being investigated. In luminal early breast cancer, involved in chromatin remodelling and epigenetic regu-
short-t erm endocrine therapy before surgery and assess- lation, have become a very interesting field of research.
ment of the proliferation response (for example, Ki67 Indeed, a randomized phase III trial of entinostat in
≤10%) in the surgical specimen — as a surrogate for combination with endocrine therapy in patients with
endo crine therapy responsiveness — may help to adapt ER- positive, HER2-negative advanced breast cancer
adjuvant therapy concepts276–278. based on the activity and toxicity profile exhibited
In the adjuvant setting, decreasing unnecessary (NCT02115282) is underway289. Another phase III trial
toxicities from overtreatment without compromising with the oral subtype-s elective histone deacetylase inhib-
outcome will also be a challenge for the years to come. itor chidamide has already shown interesting results with
However, the downside of the success in adjuvant ther- moderate toxicity69.
apies is the substantial alteration in metastatic disease, In HER2-positive metastatic breast cancer, new
with less-f avourable metastasis patterns and shorter post- antibody–drug conjugates and monoclonal antibodies
metastasis survival279, which increases the challenge for are being tested in phase II/III trials. DS-8201, a new
management of advanced breast cancer. Epidemiological anti-H ER2 antibody-d rug conjugated to a topoisomer-
data suggest that contemporary adjuvant systemic thera- ase I inhibitor, has shown potent activity in vitro and
pies exert evolutionary pressures on the tumours279 given in vivo290, and seems to be effective in patients with
changes in metastatic patterns and decreased survival HER2-positive breast cancer who were previously treated
times that have not been observed in de novo metastatic with T- DM1 (reF.291) as well as in patients with advanced
breast cancer280. These epidemiological findings paral- breast cancer with low HER2 expression. Margetuximab,
lel those of whole- genome sequencing studies, which an anti- HER2 Fc- optimized monoclonal antibody, has
show that metastatic breast cancers have similar genetic shown preliminary activity in heavily trastuzumab-
patterns to primary breast cancer with subtype-s pecific pretreated patients in a phase I trial292. The phase III
enrichment of selected driver mutations in the meta- SOPHIA trial showed a significant but modest PFS
static lesions281. In invasive lobular cancers, matched-p air improvement for margetuximab versus trastuzumab and
analysis of primary tumours and their corresponding a chemotherapy backbone in both arms293. New HER2-
metastases also revealed acquisition of several genomic targeted tyro sine kinase inhibitors such as tucatinib
alterations (such as mutations in CDH1, ESR1, ARID1A, (particularly in cases of brain metastases) and neratinib
ERBB2, GATA3, IGF1R, MAP3K1 and PIK3CA) at a fre- (particularly in cases of HER2-negative, HER2-mutant
quency of 5–11% in metastatic disease that could be and HER2-positive breast cancer294) are also being devel-
associated with disease progression and development of oped. The phase III NALA trial showed significantly
endocrine resistance282. Some of these alterations, such improved PFS but substantial gastrointestinal toxicity for
24 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
Trastuzumab Cetuximab Bevacizumab Rilotumumab shRNA Pembrolizumab
Pertuzumab Panitumumab Nivolumab T cell
T-DM1 Nimotuzumab Atezolizumab
Margetuximab Avelumab
DS-8201 Durvalumab
PD-1
TCR
EGF, TGFα, etc. VEGF HGF IL-6
Cytoplasm
HER2 EGFR VEGFR MET Cytokine receptor PD-L1MHC
Lapatinib Ramucirumab
Neratinib Gefitinib Regorafenib Onartuzumab Ruxolitinib JAK2
Tucatinib Erlotinib Apatinib AMG337
Poziotinib
Pyrotinib STAT3
Src
PU-H71 HSP90 RAS
Dasatinib PTEN PI3K Alpelisib RAF
Ipatasertib BEZ235
Capivasertib AKT PDK Taselisib MEK162 MEK1 MEK2
ERK1 ERK2
Everolimus mTOR
Temsirolimus
MAPK
Nucleus
Olaparib Entinostat
DNA repair PARP1 Talazoparib Chidamide
Veliparib Gene regulation, growth,
Trabectedin DNA damage Rucaparib proliferaton, survival and angiogenesis
Fig. 11 | Emerging targetable pathways in breast cancer. Different membrane receptor inhibitors have shown activity
in breast cancer, including monoclonal antibodies against human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), such as
trastuzumab, margetuximab and pertuzumab; antibody–drug conjugates, such as ado-t rastuzumab emtansine (T-D M1);
immunotherapy that blocks programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) and/or programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 (PD-L 1), such as
atezolizumab and pembrolizumab; or drugs that target angiogenesis (such as the monoclonal antibody bevacizumab,
which targets vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)). Tyrosine kinase inhibitors, such as lapatinib, neratinib or
tucatinib, among others, have shown activity in breast cancers that overexpress HER2. These drugs can block the
activation of different signalling pathways such as the RAS–RAF–mitogen-a ctivated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway or the
phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)–protein kinase B (AKT)–mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway , which can also
be blocked with small molecules such as everolimus or different PI3K inhibitors; the crosstalk between these pathways is
an area of active research. Additionally , different poly(ADP-r ibose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors in patients with germline
BRCA mutation-a ssociated breast cancer have demonstrated good activity. The role of these agents in patients with
somatic mutations is not known. EGF, epidermal growth factor ; EGFR , epidermal growth factor receptor ; HGF, hepatocyte
growth factor ; MET, hepatocyte growth factor receptor ; MHC, major histocompatibility complex; shRNA , short hairpin
RNA ; TCR , T cell receptor ; TGF, transforming growth factor ; VEGFR , vascular endothelial growth factor receptor.
neratinib versus lapatinib in a capecitabine combina- Finally, although far behind in clinical development
tion in women with pretreated HER2-postitive advanced compared with other tumour types, immunotherapy
breast cancer295. has shown promise with immune checkpoint inhibitors
Due to the heterogeneity and the absence of clear such as pembrolizumab299 or atezolizumab300. For exam-
drivers, the achievements in TNBC remain far behind ple, as mentioned, a first phase III trial showed a slightly
other subtypes. The luminal androgen receptor sub- improved PFS and preliminary evidence that atezo-
type (Box 2) shares features with classic luminal- like lizumab combined with nab- paclitaxel may provide an
hormone receptor- positive tumours; anti- androgens overall survival benefit compared with the taxane alone
have been shown active in this patient population296,297. in tumours with ≥1% PD- L1 immune cell staining249.
Additionally, in those patients with TNBC and BRCA Some of the biomarker assessment- based new drugs
germline mutations, two phase III trials have now have already been approved, such as PD- L1 immuno-
demonstrated better efficacy and better tolerability histochemistry in TNBC for immunotherapy249, BRCA
and quality of life for PARP inhibitors compared with germline mutations for PARP inhibitors30,31 and PIK3CA
monochemotherapy30,31, building on earlier preliminary mutations for PIK3 inhibitors301, whereas for others there
findings298. is evidence but no specific approval, such as assessing
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 25
0123456789();
Primer
HER2 mutations for neratinib302 or ESR1 mutation provide deeper knowledge of the biology of advanced
screening for resistance to aromatase inhibitors. Many disease but are not yet in play for individualized treat-
of these assessments need further data to validate their ments. Furthermore, understanding the metastatic
clinical utility and technical standardization tropism of each tumour may enable future preventive
measures. New targets (Fig. 11) and more efficient and/or
Conclusions less toxic therapies are needed to achieve the aim of
The best end points to evaluate therapies in the advanced personalized/precision medicine.
setting are debated. Research should determine optimal Apart from scientific advances, a deeper understand-
composite end points and incorporate patient-r eported ing of the needs of patients with advanced breast can-
outcome measures. Dedicated quality- of-life tools to cer and intense lobbying for their rights is crucial. In
evaluate metastatic disease are urgently needed. this regard, the ABC Global Alliance was created and is
Additionally, the mechanisms underlying tumour actively fighting for, among others, better survival and
resistance and how to overcome it are main topics quality of life, accurate information, access to multidisci-
of ongoing research. As therapies induce alterations of plinary and high-q uality care, early access to supportive
tumour biology, ongoing evaluation of disease status and palliative measures, financial support and ability to
and active pathways is necessary throughout the cancer maintain or return to work. The ABC Charter, which is a
journey. Serial biopsies are very difficult to implement, comprehensive needs assessment of the field of advanced
and hope lies with liquid biopsies, functional imag- breast cancer, clearly highlights that much work is still
ing and new applications of nanotechnology. Knowing needed and that intense collaboration between all stake-
the driving pathway at every given moment will ena- holders involved is crucial to improve the length and
ble the correct determination of the optimal sequence quality of life of all patients and perhaps one day be able
of therapies, which currently is largely unknown for to reach a cure for advanced breast cancer.
all advanced breast cancer subtypes. New techniques
Published online xx xx xxxx
such as next- generation sequencing will continue to
1. Perou, C. M. et al. Molecular portraits of human 15. Agarwal, G., Pradeep, P. V., Aggarwal, V., Yip, C.-H. Guidelines for cancer prevention and screening.
breast tumours. Nature 406, 747–752 (2000). & Cheung, P. S. Y. Spectrum of breast cancer in Asian Ann. Oncol. 27, v103–v110 (2016).
2. Cardoso, F. et al. European Breast Cancer Conference women. World J. Surg. 31, 1031–1040 (2007). 28. Daly, M. B. et al. Genetic/familial high-r isk assessment:
manifesto on breast centres/units. Eur. J. Cancer 72, 16. Li, C. I., Malone, K. E. & Daling, J. R. Differences in breast and ovarian, version 2.2015. J. Natl Compr.
244–250 (2017). breast cancer hormone receptor status and histology Cancer Netw. 14, 153–162 (2016).
3. Bray, F. et al. Global cancer statistics 2018: by race and ethnicity among women 50 years of age 29. Forbes, C., Fayter, D., de Kock, S. & Quek, R. G. W.
GLOBOCAN estimates of incidence and mortality and older. Cancer Epidemiol. Biomark. Prev. 11, A systematic review of international guidelines
worldwide for 36 cancers in 185 countries. CA Cancer 601–607 (2002). and recommendations for the genetic screening,
J. Clin. 68, 394–424 (2018). 17. Wong, F. Y., Tham, W. Y., Nei, W. L., Lim, C. & Miao, H. diagnosis, GENETIC COUNSELING and treatment
4. Bray, F. et al. Cancer Incidence in Five Continents: Age exerts a continuous effect in the outcomes of of BRCA-mutated breast cancer. Cancer Manag. Res.
inclusion criteria, highlights from Volume X and the Asian breast cancer patients treated with breast- 2019, 2321–2337 (2019).
global status of cancer registration. Int. J. Cancer conserving therapy. Cancer Commun. 38, 39 (2018). 30. Robson, M. et al. Olaparib for metastatic breast
137, 2060–2071 (2015). 18. Kohler, B. A. et al. Annual report to the nation on the cancer in patients with a germline BRCA mutation.
5. Mariotto, A. B., Etzioni, R., Hurlbert, M., Penberthy, L. status of cancer, 1975–2011, featuring incidence of N. Engl. J. Med. 377, 523–533 (2017).
& Mayer, M. Estimation of the number of women living breast cancer subtypes by race/ethnicity, poverty, 31. Litton, J. K. et al. Talazoparib in patients with
with metastatic breast cancer in the United States. and state. J. Natl Cancer Inst. 107, https://doi.org/ advanced breast cancer and a germline BRCA
Cancer Epidemiol. Biomark. Prev. 26, 809–815 10.1093/jnci/djv048 (2015). mutation. N. Engl. J. Med. 379, 753–763 (2018).
(2017). 19. DeSantis, C. E. et al. Breast cancer statistics, 2015: 32. FDA. FDA approves olaparib germline BRCA-m utated
6. Ren, J.-X., Gong, Y., Ling, H., Hu, X. & Shao, Z.-M. Convergence of incidence rates between black and metastatic breast cancer. Fda.gov https://www.fda.gov/
Racial/ethnic differences in the outcomes of patients white women: Breast Cancer Statistics, 2015. drugs/resources-information-approved-drugs/fda-
with metastatic breast cancer: contributions of CA Cancer J. Clin. 66, 31–42 (2016). approves-olaparib-germline-brca-mutated-metastatic-
demographic, socioeconomic, tumor and metastatic 20. DeSantis, C. E., Ma, J., Goding Sauer, A., Newman, L. A. breast-cancer (2018).
characteristics. Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 173, & Jemal, A. Breast cancer statistics, 2017, racial 33. FDA. FDA approves talazoparib for gBRCAm HER2-
225–237 (2019). disparity in mortality by state: Breast Cancer negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
7. Torre, L. A., Siegel, R. L., Ward, E. M. & Jemal, A. Statistics, 2017. CA Cancer J. Clin. 67, 439–448 Fda.gov https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-approvals-
Global cancer incidence and mortality rates and trends (2017). and-databases/fda-approves-talazoparib-gbrcam-her2-
— an update. Cancer Epidemiol. Biomark. Prev. 25, 21. Shiovitz, S. & Korde, L. A. Genetics of breast cancer: negative-locally-advanced-or-metastatic-breast-cancer
16–27 (2016). a topic in evolution. Ann. Oncol. 26, 1291–1299 (2018).
8. Ginsburg, O. et al. The global burden of women’s (2015). 34. Pasche, B. Recent advances in breast cancer genetics.
cancers: a grand challenge in global health. Lancet 22. Collaborative Group on Hormonal Factors in Breast Cancer Treat. Res. 141, 1–10 (2008).
389, 847–860 (2017). Cancer. Familial breast cancer: collaborative reanalysis 35. Cobain, E. F., Milliron, K. J. & Merajver, S. D. Updates
9. Allemani, C. et al. Global surveillance of cancer of individual data from 52 epidemiological studies on breast cancer genetics: clinical implications of
survival 1995–2009: analysis of individual data for including 58 209 women with breast cancer and 101 detecting syndromes of inherited increased
25 676 887 patients from 279 population-b ased 986 women without the disease. Lancet 358, susceptibility to breast cancer. Semin. Oncol. 43,
registries in 67 countries (CONCORD-2). Lancet 385, 1389–1399 (2001). 528–535 (2016).
977–1010 (2015). 23. Brewer, H. R., Jones, M. E., Schoemaker, M. J., 36. Crawford, B. et al. Multi-g ene panel testing for
10. Winters, S., Martin, C., Murphy, D. & Shokar, N. K. Ashworth, A. & Swerdlow, A. J. Family history and risk hereditary cancer predisposition in unsolved high-r isk
Breast cancer epidemiology, prevention, and of breast cancer: an analysis accounting for family breast and ovarian cancer patients. Breast Cancer
screening. Prog. Mol. Biol. Transl Sci. 151, 1–32 structure. Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 165, 193–200 Res. Treat. 163, 383–390 (2017).
(2017). (2017). 37. Taylor, A. et al. Consensus for genes to be included
11. Hossain, M. S., Ferdous, S. & Karim-K os, H. E. Breast 24. Huen, M. S. Y., Sy, S. M. H. & Chen, J. BRCA1 and on cancer panel tests offered by UK genetics services:
cancer in South. Asia: a Bangladeshi perspective. its toolbox for the maintenance of genome integrity. guidelines of the UK Cancer Genetics Group. J. Med.
Cancer Epidemiol. 38, 465–470 (2014). Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 11, 138–148 (2010). Genet. 55, 372–377 (2018).
12. Leong, S. P. L. et al. Is breast cancer the same disease 25. Kuchenbaecker, K. B. et al. Risks of breast, ovarian, 38. Althuis, M. D., Dozier, J. M., Anderson, W. F.,
in Asian and western countries? World J. Surg. 34, and contralateral breast cancer for BRCA1 and BRCA2 Devesa, S. S. & Brinton, L. A. Global trends in
2308–2324 (2010). mutation carriers. JAMA 317, 2402 (2017). breast cancer incidence and mortality 1973–1997.
13. Bhoo Pathy, N. et al. Breast cancer in a multi-e thnic 26. Balmana, J., Diez, O., Rubio, I. T. & Cardoso, F., On Int. J. Epidemiol. 34, 405–412 (2005).
Asian setting: results from the Singapore–Malaysia behalf of the ESMO Guidelines Working Group. BRCA 39. Colditz, G. A., Sellers, T. A. & Trapido, E. Epidemiology
hospital-b ased breast cancer registry. Breast 20, in breast cancer: ESMO clinical practice guidelines. — identifying the causes and preventability of cancer?
S75–S80 (2011). Ann. Oncol. 22, vi31–vi34 (2011). Nat. Rev. Cancer 6, 75–83 (2006).
14. Raina, V. et al. Clinical features and prognostic factors 27. Paluch-S himon, S. et al. Prevention and screening in 40. Britt, K., Ashworth, A. & Smalley, M. Pregnancy and
of early breast cancer at a major cancer center in BRCA mutation carriers and other breast/ovarian the risk of breast cancer. Endocr. Relat. Cancer 14,
North India. Indian J. Cancer 42, 40 (2005). hereditary cancer syndromes: ESMO Clinical Practice 907–933 (2007).
26 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
41. Siwko, S. K. et al. Evidence that an early pregnancy breast cancer. Clin. Cancer Res. 23, 2630–2639 factor receptor 2 discordance between primary breast
causes a persistent decrease in the number of (2017). cancer and metastases. Eur. J. Cancer 50, 277–289
functional mammary epithelial stem cells — 65. Heitzer, E., Haque, I. S., Roberts, C. E. S. & (2014).
implications for pregnancy-i nduced protection against Speicher, M. R. Current and future perspectives of 88. Independent, U. K. Panel on breast cancer screening.
breast cancer. Stem Cells 26, 3205–3209 (2008). liquid biopsies in genomics-d riven oncology. Nat. Rev. the benefits and harms of breast cancer screening: an
42. Hilakivi-C larke, L., de Assis, S. & Warri, A. Exposures Genet. 20, 71–88 (2019). independent review. Lancet 380, 1778–1786 (2012).
to synthetic estrogens at different times during the life, 66. Ediriweera, M. K., Tennekoon, K. H. & Samarakoon, S. R. 89. Nelson, H. D. et al. Effectiveness of breast cancer
and their effect on breast cancer risk. J. Mammary Emerging role of histone deacetylase inhibitors as screening: systematic review and meta-a nalysis to
Gland. Biol. Neoplasia 18, 25–42 (2013). anti- breast-cancer agents. Drug Discov. Today 24, update the 2009 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force
43. Danaei, G., Vander Hoorn, S., Lopez, A. D., 685–702 (2019). recommendation. Ann. Intern. Med. 164, 244–255
Murray, C. J. & Ezzati, M. Causes of cancer in 67. Munster, P. N. et al. A phase II study of the histone (2016).
the world: comparative risk assessment of nine deacetylase inhibitor vorinostat combined with 90. Lauby-S ecretan, B. et al. Breast-c ancer screening —
behavioural and environmental risk factors. Lancet tamoxifen for the treatment of patients with hormone viewpoint of the IARC Working Group. N. Engl. J. Med.
366, 1784–1793 (2005). therapy-r esistant breast cancer. Br. J. Cancer 104, 372, 2353–2358 (2015).
44. Chen, W. Y., Rosner, B., Hankinson, S. E., Colditz, G. A. 1828–1835 (2011). 91. Houssami, N. Overdiagnosis of breast cancer in
& Willett, W. C. Moderate alcohol consumption during 68. Zhou, Y., Wang, Y., Zhang, K., Zhu, J. & Ning, Z. population screening: does it make breast screening
adult life, drinking patterns, and breast cancer risk. Reverse effect of chidamide on endocrine resistance in worthless? Cancer Biol. Med. 14, 1–8 (2017).
JAMA 306, 1884 (2011). estrogen receptor-p ositive breast cancer. J. Shenzhen 92. Suhrke, P. et al. Effect of mammography screening
45. Singletary, K. W. & Gapstur, S. M. Alcohol and breast Univ. Sci. Eng. 35, 339 (2018). on surgical treatment for breast cancer in Norway:
cancer: review of epidemiologic and experimental 69. Jiang, Z. et al. Phase III trial of chidamide, a subtype- comparative analysis of cancer registry data. BMJ
evidence and potential mechanisms. JAMA 286, 2143 selective histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, in 343, d4692–d4692 (2011).
(2001). combination with exemestane in patients with 93. Stang, A., Kääb-S anyal, V., Hense, H.-W., Becker, N. &
46. Smith-W arner, S. A. et al. Alcohol and breast cancer hormone receptor-p ositive advanced breast cancer Kuss, O. Effect of mammography screening on surgical
in women: a pooled analysis of cohort studies. JAMA [abstract]. Ann. Oncol. 29, 283O_PR (2018). treatment for breast cancer: a nationwide analysis of
279, 535 (1998). 70. Williams, C. & Lin, C.-Y. Oestrogen receptors in breast hospitalization rates in Germany 2005–2009. Eur. J.
47. Bandera, E. V., Maskarinec, G., Romieu, I. & John, E. M. cancer: basic mechanisms and clinical implications. Epidemiol. 28, 689–696 (2013).
Racial and ethnic disparities in the impact of obesity Ecancermedicalscience 7, 370 (2013). 94. IARC Handbooks of Cancer Prevention. Breast Cancer
on breast cancer risk and survival: a global 71. Levin, E. R. & Pietras, R. J. Estrogen receptors outside Screening (Volume 15). Iarc.fr http://publications.iarc.fr/
perspective. Adv. Nutr. 6, 803–819 (2015). the nucleus in breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res. Treat. Book- And-Report- Series/Iarc- Handbooks-Of- Cancer-
48. Picon-R uiz, M., Morata-T arifa, C., Valle-G offin, J. J., 108, 351–361 (2008). Prevention/Breast- Cancer-Screening-2016 (2016).
Friedman, E. R. & Slingerland, J. M. Obesity and 72. Santen, R. J. Clinical review: effect of endocrine 95. Nelson, H. D. et al. Harms of breast cancer screening:
adverse breast cancer risk and outcome: mechanistic therapies on bone in breast cancer patients. systematic review to update the 2009 U.S. Preventive
insights and strategies for intervention: breast cancer, J. Clin. Endocrinol. Metab. 96, 308–319 (2011). Services Task Force recommendation. Ann. Intern. Med.
inflammation, and obesity. CA Cancer J. Clin. 67, 73. Ruffell, B. et al. Leukocyte composition of human 164, 256–267 (2016).
378–397 (2017). breast cancer. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 109, 96. Carter, J. L., Coletti, R. J. & Harris, R. P. Quantifying
49. Shieh, Y. et al. Body mass index, mammographic 2796–2801 (2012). and monitoring overdiagnosis in cancer screening:
density, and breast cancer risk by estrogen receptor 74. Solinas, C., Carbognin, L., De Silva, P., Criscitiello, C. a systematic review of methods. BMJ 350, g7773
subtype. Breast Cancer Res. 21, 48 (2019). & Lambertini, M. Tumor-i nfiltrating lymphocytes in (2015).
50. Suzuki, Y., Tsunoda, H., Kimura, T. & Yamauchi, H. breast cancer according to tumor subtype: current state 97. Saslow, D. et al. American Cancer Society guidelines
BMI change and abdominal circumference are risk of the art. Breast 35, 142–150 (2017). for breast screening with MRI as an adjunct to
factors for breast cancer, even in Asian women. 75. Nagarajan, D. & McArdle, S. Immune landscape mammography. CA Cancer J. Clin. 57, 75–89 (2007).
Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 166, 919–925 (2017). of breast cancers. Biomedicines 6, 20 (2018). 98. Phi, X.-A. et al. Magnetic resonance imaging improves
51. Del Pup, L., Codacci-P isanelli, G. & Peccatori, F. Breast 76. Savas, P. et al. Clinical relevance of host immunity breast screening sensitivity in BRCA mutation carriers
cancer risk of hormonal contraception: counselling in breast cancer: from TILs to the clinic. Nat. Rev. age ≥ 50 years: evidence from an individual patient
considering new evidence. Crit. Rev. Oncol. Hematol. Clin. Oncol. 13, 228–241 (2016). data meta- analysis. J. Clin. Oncol. 33, 349–356
137, 123–130 (2019). 77. Dieci, M. V. et al. Update on tumor-i nfiltrating (2015).
52. Busund, M. et al. Progestin-o nly and combined oral lymphocytes (TILs) in breast cancer, including 99. Sardanelli, F. et al. Magnetic resonance imaging of the
contraceptives and receptor-d efined premenopausal recommendations to assess TILs in residual disease breast: recommendations from the EUSOMA working
breast cancer risk: the Norwegian Women and Cancer after neoadjuvant therapy and in carcinoma in situ: group. Eur. J. Cancer 46, 1296–1316 (2010).
Study. Int. J. Cancer 142, 2293–2302 (2018). a report of the International Immuno-O ncology 100. Melnikow, J. et al. Supplemental screening for breast
53. Mørch, L. S. et al. Contemporary hormonal Biomarker Working Group on Breast Cancer. cancer in women with dense breasts: a systematic
contraception and the risk of breast cancer. N. Engl. Semin. Cancer Biol. 52, 16–25 (2018). review for the U.S. preventive services task force.
J. Med. 377, 2228–2239 (2017). 78. Boudreau, A., van’t Veer, L. J. & Bissell, M. J. Ann. Intern. Med. 164, 268–278 (2016).
54. Ganz, P. A. et al. Supportive care after curative An ‘elite hacker’: breast tumors exploit the normal 101. Houssami, N. & Lee, C. I. The impact of legislation
treatment for breast cancer (survivorship care): microenvironment program to instruct their mandating breast density notification — review of the
resource allocations in low- and middle-i ncome progression and biological diversity. Cell Adhes. Migr. evidence. Breast 42, 102–112 (2018).
countries. A Breast Health Global Initiative 2013 6, 236–248 (2012). 102. Marinovich, M. L., Hunter, K. E., Macaskill, P.
consensus statement. Breast 22, 606–615 (2013). 79. Smyth, M. J., Dunn, G. P. & Schreiber, R. D. Cancer & Houssami, N. Breast cancer screening using
55. Burris, J. L., Armeson, K. & Sterba, K. R. A closer look immunosurveillance and immunoediting: the roles tomosynthesis or mammography: a meta-a nalysis of
at unmet needs at the end of primary treatment for of immunity in suppressing tumor development and cancer detection and recall. J. Natl Cancer Inst. 110,
breast cancer: a longitudinal pilot study. Behav. Med. shaping tumor immunogenicity. Adv. Immunol. 90, 942–949 (2018).
41, 69–76 (2015). 1–50 (2006). 103. Irwig, L., Macaskill, P. & Houssami, N. Evidence
56. Coughlin, S. S., Yoo, W., Whitehead, M. S. & 80. Schreiber, R. D., Old, L. J. & Smyth, M. J. Cancer relevant to the investigation of breast symptoms:
Smith, S. A. Advancing breast cancer survivorship immunoediting: integrating immunity’s roles in the triple test. Breast 11, 215–220 (2002).
among African-A merican women. Breast Cancer cancer suppression and promotion. Science 331, 104. Houssami, N., Ciatto, S., Turner, R. M., Cody, H. S.
Res. Treat. 153, 253–261 (2015). 1565–1570 (2011). & Macaskill, P. Preoperative ultrasound-g uided needle
57. Bodai, B. Breast cancer survivorship: a comprehensive 81. Buonomo, O. C. et al. New insights into the metastatic biopsy of axillary nodes in invasive breast cancer:
review of long-t erm medical issues and lifestyle behavior after breast cancer surgery, according to meta-a nalysis of its accuracy and utility in staging the
recommendations. Perm. J. 19, 48–79 (2015). well-e stablished clinicopathological variables and axilla. Ann. Surg. 254, 243–251 (2011).
58. Ho, P. J., Gernaat, S. A. M., Hartman, M. & molecular subtypes. PLOS ONE 12, e0184680 105. Morrow, M., Waters, J. & Morris, E. MRI for breast
Verkooijen, H. M. Health-r elated quality of life in (2017). cancer screening, diagnosis, and treatment. Lancet
Asian patients with breast cancer: a systematic review. 82. Gobbini, E. et al. Time trends of overall survival 378, 1804–1811 (2011).
BMJ Open 8, e020512 (2018). among metastatic breast cancer patients in the 106. Srigley, J. R. et al. Standardized synoptic cancer
59. Miyashita, M. et al. Unmet information needs and real-l ife ESME cohort. Eur. J. Cancer 96, 17–24 pathology reporting: a population-b ased approach.
quality of life in young breast cancer survivors in (2018). J. Surg. Oncol. 99, 517–524 (2009).
japan. Cancer Nurs. 38, E1–E11 (2015). 83. Santé Publique France. Breast cancer [French]. 107. World Heath Organisation. WHO Classification of
60. Bombonati, A. & Sgroi, D. C. The molecular pathology Santepubliquefrance.fr https://www. Tumours of the Breast, Fourth Edition. (World Health
of breast cancer progression. J. Pathol. 223, santepubliquefrance.fr/maladies- et-traumatismes/ Organization, 2012).
307–317 (2011). cancers/cancer- du-sein (2019). 108. Elston, C. W. & Ellis, I. O. Pathological prognostic
61. Ellis, M. J. et al. Whole-g enome analysis informs 84. Zhang, K. et al. Clinical value of circulating ESR1 factors in breast cancer. I. The value of histological
breast cancer response to aromatase inhibition. mutations for patients with metastatic breast cancer: grade in breast cancer: experience from a large
Nature 486, 353–360 (2012). a meta- analysis. Cancer Manag. Res. 10, 2573–2580 study with long-t erm follow-u p. Histopathology 19,
62. Lopez-G arcia, M. A., Geyer, F. C., Lacroix-T riki, M., (2018). 403–410 (1991).
Marchió, C. & Reis-F ilho, J. S. Breast cancer 85. Yates, L. R. et al. Genomic evolution of breast cancer 109. National Comprehensive Cancer Network. NCCN
precursors revisited: molecular features and metastasis and relapse. Cancer Cell 32, 169–184.e7 Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology: Breast
progression pathways: molecular evolution of breast (2017). Cancer. Nccn.org https://www.nccn.org/professionals/
cancer. Histopathology 57, 171–192 (2010). 86. Gingras, I., Salgado, R. & Ignatiadis, M. Liquid biopsy: physician_gls/pdf/breast.pdf (2018).
63. Nik-Z ainal, S. et al. Landscape of somatic mutations in will it be the ‘magic tool’ for monitoring response of 110. Curigliano, G. et al. De-e scalating and escalating
560 breast cancer whole-g enome sequences. Nature solid tumors to anticancer therapies? Curr. Opin. treatments for early-s tage breast cancer: the
534, 47–54 (2016). Oncol. 27, 560–567 (2015). St. Gallen International Expert Consensus Conference
64. Yates, L. R. & Desmedt, C. Translational genomics: 87. Aurilio, G. et al. A meta-a nalysis of oestrogen receptor, on the Primary Therapy of Early Breast Cancer 2017.
practical applications of the genomic revolution in progesterone receptor and human epidermal growth Ann. Oncol. 28, 1700–1712 (2017).
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 27
0123456789();
Primer
111. Senkus, E. et al. Primary breast cancer: ESMO Clinical with early-s tage invasive breast cancer: American College of Surgeons Oncology Group (Alliance)
Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and Society of Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline. ACOSOG Z0011 randomized trial. Ann. Surg. 264,
follow- up. Ann. Oncol. 24 (Suppl. 6), vi7-vi23 (2013). J. Clin. Oncol. 34, 1134–1150 (2016). 413–420 (2016).
112. Hammond, M. E. H. et al. American Society of Clinical 134. Krop, I. et al. Use of biomarkers to guide decisions on 153. Balic, M., Thomssen, C., Würstlein, R., Gnant, M. &
Oncology/College of American Pathologists guideline adjuvant systemic therapy for women with early-s tage Harbeck, N. St. Gallen/Vienna 2019: a brief summary
recommendations for immunohistochemical testing of invasive breast cancer: American Society of Clinical of the consensus discussion on the optimal primary
estrogen and progesterone receptors in breast cancer. Oncology clinical practice guideline focused update. breast cancer treatment. Breast Care 14, 1–8 (2019).
J. Clin. Oncol. 28, 2784–2795 (2010). J. Clin. Oncol. 35, 2838–2847 (2017). 154. Kaidar-P erson, O., Meattini, I. & Poortmans, P. M. P.
113. Wolff, A. C. et al. Human epidermal growth factor 135. Nitz, U. et al. West German Study PlanB trial: adjuvant Between uncertainties and overtreatment. Int. J.
receptor 2 testing in breast cancer: American Society four cycles of epirubicin and cyclophosphamide Radiat. Oncol. 104, 15–16 (2019).
of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists plus docetaxel versus six cycles of docetaxel and 155. Kuehn, T. et al. Sentinel-l ymph-node biopsy in patients
clinical practice guideline focused update. J. Clin. cyclophosphamide in HER2-negative early breast with breast cancer before and after neoadjuvant
Oncol. 36, 2105–2122 (2018). cancer. J. Clin. Oncol. 37, 799–808 (2019). chemotherapy (SENTINA): a prospective, multicentre
114. Dowsett, M. et al. Assessment of Ki67 in breast 136. Sestak, I. Risk stratification in early breast cancer cohort study. Lancet Oncol. 14, 609–618 (2013).
cancer: recommendations from the International Ki67 in premenopausal and postmenopausal women: 156. King, T. A. & Morrow, M. Surgical issues in patients with
in Breast Cancer working group. J. Natl Cancer Inst. integrating genomic assays with clinicopathological breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
103, 1656–1664 (2011). features. Curr. Opin. Oncol. 1, 29–34 (2018). Nat. Rev. Clin. Oncol. 12, 335–343 (2015).
115. Rakha, E. A. et al. The prognostic significance of 137. McLaughlin, S. A. Surgical management of the breast: 157. Giuliano, A. E. et al. Axillary dissection vs no axillary
lymphovascular invasion in invasive breast carcinoma. breast conservation therapy and mastectomy. dissection in women with invasive breast cancer and
Cancer 118, 3670–3680 (2012). Surg. Clin. North Am. 93, 411–428 (2013). sentinel node metastasis: a randomized clinical trial.
116. Barrio, A. V. & Morrow, M. Appropriate margin for 138. Margenthaler, J. A. & Ollila, D. W. Breast conservation JAMA 305, 569–575 (2011).
lumpectomy excision of invasive breast cancer. therapy versus mastectomy: shared decision-m aking 158. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group
Chin. Clin. Oncol. 5, 35–35 (2016). strategies and overcoming decisional conflicts in your (EBCTCG). et al. Effect of radiotherapy after breast-
117. Chung, A. et al. Impact of consensus guidelines by the patients. Ann. Surg. Oncol. 23, 3133–3137 (2016). conserving surgery on 10-year recurrence and 15-year
Society of Surgical Oncology and the American Society 139. Buchholz, T. A., Mittendorf, E. A. & Hunt, K. K. Surgical breast cancer death: meta-a nalysis of individual
for Radiation Oncology on margins for breast- considerations after neoadjuvant chemotherapy: patient data for 10,801 women in 17 randomised
conserving surgery in stages 1 and 2 invasive breast breast conservation therapy. J. Natl Cancer Inst. trials. Lancet 378, 1707–1716 (2011).
cancer. Ann. Surg. Oncol. 22, 422–427 (2015). Monogr. 2015, 11–14 (2015). This meta-a nalysis underlines that the contribution
118. Schulman, A. M. et al. Reexcision surgery for breast 140. Houssami, N., Macaskill, P., Luke Marinovich, M. & of radiation therapy should always be the standard
cancer: an analysis of the American Society of Breast Morrow, M. The association of surgical margins and approach for breast-c onserving therapy.
Surgeons (ASBrS) MasterySM database following the local recurrence in women with early-s tage invasive 159. EBCTCG (Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative
SSO-A STRO “no ink on tumor” guidelines. Ann. Surg. breast cancer treated with breast-c onserving therapy: Group). Effect of radiotherapy after mastectomy and
Oncol. 24, 52–58 (2017). a meta- analysis. Ann. Surg. Oncol. 21, 717–730 axillary surgery on 10-year recurrence and 20-year
119. Morrow, M. et al. Society of Surgical Oncology– (2014). breast cancer mortality: meta-a nalysis of individual
American Society for Radiation Oncology–American 141. Morrow, M., Harris, J. R. & Schnitt, S. J. Surgical patient data for 8135 women in 22 randomised trials.
Society of Clinical Oncology consensus guideline on margins in lumpectomy for breast cancer — bigger is Lancet 383, 2127–2135 (2014).
margins for breast-c onserving surgery with whole- not better. N. Engl. J. Med. 367, 79–82 (2012). This meta-a nalysis helps us to better identify those
breast irradiation in ductal carcinoma in situ. This commentary and the meta-a nalysis by patients who would benefit most from radiation
Pract. Radiat. Oncol. 6, 287–295 (2016). Houssami et al. (2014) settled the decade-l ong therapy after mastectomy.
120. Morrow, M. et al. Society of Surgical Oncology– discussions about surgical resection margins and 160. Jatoi, I., Benson, J. R. & Kunkler, I. Hypothesis: can
American Society for Radiation Oncology–American are, therefore, landmark contributions. the abscopal effect explain the impact of adjuvant
Society of Clinical Oncology consensus guideline on 142. Tan, M. P., Sitoh, N. Y. & Sim, A. S. The value of radiotherapy on breast cancer mortality? NPJ Breast
margins for breast-c onserving surgery with whole- intraoperative frozen section analysis for margin status Cancer 4, 8 (2018).
breast irradiation in ductal carcinoma in situ. in breast conservation surgery in a nontertiary institution. 161. Bartelink, H. et al. Whole-b reast irradiation with or
J. Clin. Oncol. 34, 4040–4046 (2016). Int. J. Breast Cancer https://doi.org/10.1155/2014/ without a boost for patients treated with breast-
121. Moran, M. S. et al. Society of Surgical Oncology– 715404 (2014). conserving surgery for early breast cancer: 20-year
American Society for Radiation Oncology consensus 143. Boughey, J. C. et al. Impact of analysis of frozen- follow-u p of a randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol.
guideline on margins for breast-c onserving surgery section margin on reoperation rates in women 16, 47–56 (2015).
with whole-b reast irradiation in stages I and II invasive undergoing lumpectomy for breast cancer: evaluation 162. Poortmans, P. Postmastectomy radiation in breast
breast cancer. Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol. Phys. 88, of the National Surgical Quality Improvement Program cancer with one to three involved lymph nodes:
553–564 (2014). data. Surgery 156, 190–197 (2014). ending the debate. Lancet 383, 2104–2106 (2014).
122. Amin, M. B. et al. The Eighth Edition AJCC Cancer 144. Haloua, M. H. et al. A systematic review of oncoplastic 163. Poortmans, P. M. et al. Internal mammary and medial
Staging Manual: continuing to build a bridge from breast-c onserving surgery: current weaknesses and supraclavicular irradiation in breast cancer. N. Engl.
a population-b ased to a more ‘personalized’ approach future prospects. Ann. Surg. 257, 609–620 (2013). J. Med. 373, 317–327 (2015).
to cancer staging. CA Cancer J. Clin. 67, 93–99 145. Benelli, L. A new periareolar mammaplasty: the ‘round 164. Whelan, T. J. et al. Regional nodal irradiation in early-
(2017). block’ technique. Aesthetic Plast. Surg. 14, 93–100 stage breast cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. 373, 307–316
123. Tao, L. et al. Breast cancer mortality in older and (1990). (2015).
younger breast cancer patients in California. Cancer 146. Clough, K. B., Kaufman, G. J., Nos, C., Buccimazza, I. 165. Thorsen, L. B. J. et al. DBCG-I MN: a population-b ased
Epidemiol. Biomark. Prev. 28, 303–310 (2018). & Sarfati, I. M. Improving breast cancer surgery: a cohort study on the effect of internal mammary node
124. Salgado, R. et al. The evaluation of tumor-i nfiltrating classification and quadrant per quadrant atlas for irradiation in early node-p ositive breast cancer. J. Clin.
lymphocytes (TILs) in breast cancer: recommendations oncoplastic surgery. Ann. Surg. Oncol. 17, Oncol. 34, 314–320 (2016).
by an International TILs Working Group 2014. 1375–1391 (2010). 166. Curigliano, G. et al. De-e scalating and escalating
Ann. Oncol. 26, 259–271 (2015). 147. Yao, K., Winchester, D. J., Czechura, T. & Huo, D. treatments for early-s tage breast cancer: the
125. Green, A. R. et al. Nottingham Prognostic Index Plus: Contralateral prophylactic mastectomy and survival: St. Gallen International Expert Consensus Conference
validation of a clinical decision making tool in breast report from the national cancer data base, 1998–2002. on the Primary Therapy of Early Breast Cancer 2017.
cancer in an independent series. J. Pathol. Clin. Res. 2, Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 142, 465–476 (2013). Ann. Oncol. 29, 2153–2153 (2018).
32–40 (2016). 148. Vila, J., Gandini, S. & Gentilini, O. Overall survival 167. Oliai, C. & Hurvitz, S. A. The debate over post-
126. Candido dos Reis, F. J. et al. An updated PREDICT according to type of surgery in young (≤40 years) early mastectomy radiotherapy should continue: breast
breast cancer prognostication and treatment benefit breast cancer patients: a systematic meta-a nalysis cancer. Nat. Rev. Clin. Oncol. 12, 567–568 (2015).
prediction model with independent validation. Breast comparing breast-c onserving surgery versus 168. Recht, A. et al. Postmastectomy radiotherapy: an
Cancer Res. 19, 58 (2017). mastectomy. Breast 24, 175–181 (2015). American Society of Clinical Oncology, American
127. Phung, M. T., Tin Tin, S. & Elwood, J. M. Prognostic 149. Lucci, A. et al. Surgical complications associated with Society for Radiation Oncology, and Society of Surgical
models for breast cancer: a systematic review. sentinel lymph node dissection (SLND) plus axillary Oncology focused guideline update. Ann. Surg. Oncol.
BMC Cancer 19, 230 (2019). lymph node dissection compared with SLND alone in 24, 38–51 (2017).
128. Senkus, E. et al. Primary breast cancer: ESMO Clinical the American College of Surgeons Oncology Group 169. Dodwell, D. et al. Abstract GS4-02: regional lymph
Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and trial Z0011. J. Clin. Oncol. 25, 3657–3663 (2007). node irradiation in early stage breast cancer: an
follow- up. Ann. Oncol. 26 (Suppl. 5), v8-v30 (2015). 150. Krag, D. N. et al. Sentinel-l ymph-node resection EBCTCG meta-a nalysis of 13,000 women in 14 trials.
129. Cortazar, P. et al. Pathological complete response and compared with conventional axillary-l ymph-node in General Session Abstracts GS4-02-GS4-02 https://
long-t erm clinical benefit in breast cancer: the dissection in clinically node-n egative patients with doi.org/10.1158/1538-7445.SABCS18-GS4-02
CTNeoBC pooled analysis. Lancet 384, 164–172 breast cancer: overall survival findings from the (American Association for Cancer Research, 2019).
(2014). NSABP B-32 randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 170. Kunkler, I. H., Canney, P., van Tienhoven, G. &
130. Cardoso, F. et al. 70-Gene signature as an aid to 11, 927–933 (2010). Russell, N. S. MRC/EORTC (BIG 2-04) SUPREMO Trial
treatment decisions in early-s tage breast cancer. This large clinical trial confirms that there is no Management Group. Elucidating the role of chest
N. Engl. J. Med. 375, 717–729 (2016). overall survival difference between sentinel lymph wall irradiation in ‘intermediate-r isk’. breast cancer:
131. Sparano, J. A. et al. Prospective validation of a node biopsy and axillary lymph node dissection. The MRC/EORTC SUPREMO trial. Clin. Oncol.
21-gene expression assay in breast cancer. N. Engl. 151. Veronesi, U. et al. A randomized comparison of R. Coll. Radiol. 20, 31–34 (2008).
J. Med. 373, 2005–2014 (2015). sentinel-n ode biopsy with routine axillary dissection in 171. Poortmans, P., Aznar, M. & Bartelink, H. Quality
132. Sparano, J. A. et al. Adjuvant chemotherapy guided by breast cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. 349, 546–553 (2003). indicators for breast cancer: revisiting historical
a 21-gene expression assay in breast cancer. N. Engl. 152. Giuliano, A. E. et al. Locoregional recurrence after evidence in the context of technology changes.
J. Med. 379, 111–121 (2018). sentinel lymph node dissection with or without axillary Semin. Radiat. Oncol. 22, 29–39 (2012).
133. Harris, L. N. et al. Use of biomarkers to guide dissection in patients with sentinel lymph node 172. Osman, S. O. S., Hol, S., Poortmans, P. M. & Essers, M.
decisions on adjuvant systemic therapy for women metastases: long-t erm follow-u p from the American Volumetric modulated arc therapy and breath-h old in
28 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
image-g uided locoregional left-s ided breast 192. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group 212. Earl, H. M. et al. 6 versus 12 months of adjuvant
irradiation. Radiother. Oncol. 112, 17–22 (2014). (EBCTCG) et al. Comparisons between different trastuzumab for HER2-positive early breast cancer
173. Essers, M., Poortmans, P. M., Verschueren, K., Hol, S. polychemotherapy regimens for early breast cancer: (PERSEPHONE): 4-year disease-f ree survival results
& Cobben, D. C. P. Should breathing adapted meta-a nalyses of long-t erm outcome among 100,000 of a randomised phase 3 non-i nferiority trial. Lancet
radiotherapy also be applied for right-s ided breast women in 123 randomized trials. Lancet 379, 393, 2599–2612 (2019).
irradiation? Acta Oncol. 55, 460–465 (2016). 432–444 (2012). 213. Pivot, X. et al. Either 6 months versus 12 months of
174. Poortmans, P. M. P., Arenas, M. & Livi, L. Over- This meta-a nalysis demonstrates the benefits of adjuvant trastuzumab for patients with HER2-positive
irradiation. Breast 31, 295–302 (2017). adjuvant chemotherapy in early breast cancer. early breast cancer (PHARE): a randomised phase 3
175. Blamey, R. W. et al. Radiotherapy or tamoxifen after 193. Rastogi, P. et al. Preoperative chemotherapy: updates trial. Lancet Oncol. 14, 741–748 (2013).
conserving surgery for breast cancers of excellent of national surgical adjuvant breast and bowel project 214. Joensuu, H. et al. Effect of adjuvant trastuzumab
prognosis: British Association of Surgical Oncology protocols B-18 and B-27. J. Clin. Oncol. 26, 778–785 for a duration of 9 weeks vs 1 year with concomitant
(BASO) II trial. Eur. J. Cancer 49, 2294–2302 (2013). (2008). chemotherapy for early human epidermal growth
176. McGuire, S. E. et al. Postmastectomy radiation 194. Francis, P. A. et al. Tailoring adjuvant endocrine factor receptor 2–positive breast cancer: the SOLD
improves the outcome of patients with locally therapy for premenopausal breast cancer. N. Engl. randomized clinical trial. JAMA Oncol. 4, 1199 (2018).
advanced breast cancer who achieve a pathologic J. Med. 379, 122–137 (2018). 215. Piccart-G ebhart, M. J. et al. Trastuzumab after
complete response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. 195. Gnant, M. et al. Zoledronic acid combined with adjuvant chemotherapy in HER2-positive breast
Int. J. Radiat. Oncol. Biol. Phys. 68, 1004–1009 adjuvant endocrine therapy of tamoxifen versus cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. 353, 1659–1672 (2005).
(2007). anastrozol plus ovarian function suppression in 216. Goldhirsch, A. et al. 2 years versus 1 year of adjuvant
177. Mamounas, E. P. et al. Predictors of locoregional premenopausal early breast cancer: final analysis trastuzumab for HER2-positive breast cancer (HERA):
recurrence after neoadjuvant chemotherapy: results of the Austrian Breast and Colorectal Cancer Study an open-l abel, randomised controlled trial. Lancet
from combined analysis of national surgical adjuvant Group Trial 12. Ann. Oncol. 26, 313–320 (2015). 382, 1021–1028 (2013).
breast and bowel project B-18 and B-27. J. Clin. 196. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group 217. Hahnen, E. et al. Germline mutation status,
Oncol. 30, 3960–3966 (2012). (EBCTCG). Aromatase inhibitors versus tamoxifen pathological complete response, and disease-f ree
178. Krug, D. et al. Individualization of post-m astectomy in early breast cancer: patient- level meta- analysis survival in triple-n egative breast cancer: secondary
radiotherapy and regional nodal irradiation based on of the randomised trials. Lancet 386, 1341–1352 analysis of the GeparSixto randomized clinical trial.
treatment response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (2015). JAMA Oncol. 3, 1378–1385 (2017).
for breast cancer: a systematic review. Strahlenther. This meta-a nalysis demonstrates the benefit of 218. Sikov, W. M. et al. Impact of the addition of
Onkol. 194, 607–618 (2018). the two individual options for adjuvant endocrine carboplatin and/or bevacizumab to neoadjuvant
179. Amoroso, V. et al. International Expert Consensus on therapy in postmenopausal patients with early once-p er-week paclitaxel followed by dose-d ense
Primary Systemic Therapy in the Management of Early breast cancer. doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide on pathologic
Breast Cancer: Highlights of the Fifth Symposium on 197. Pan, H. et al. 20-Year risks of breast-c ancer recurrence complete response rates in stage II to III triple-
Primary Systemic Therapy in the Management of after stopping endocrine therapy at 5 years. N. Engl. negative breast cancer: CALGB 40603 (Alliance).
Operable Breast Cancer, Cremona, Italy (2013). J. Med. 377, 1836–1846 (2017). J. Clin. Oncol. 33, 13–21 (2015).
J. Natl Cancer Inst. Monogr. 2015, 90–96 (2015). 198. Gray, R. et al. Increasing the dose density of adjuvant 219. Masuda, N. et al. Adjuvant capecitabine for breast
180. Offersen, B. V. et al. ESTRO consensus guideline on chemotherapy by shortening intervals between cancer after preoperative chemotherapy. N. Engl.
target volume delineation for elective radiation courses or by sequential drug administration J. Med. 376, 2147–2159 (2017).
therapy of early stage breast cancer, version 1.1. significantly reduces both disease recurrence and 220. Gnant, M. et al. Adjuvant denosumab in breast cancer
Radiother. Oncol. 118, 205–208 (2016). breast cancer mortality: an EBCTCG meta-a nalysis of (ABCSG-18): a multicentre, randomised, double-b lind,
181. Haviland, J. S. et al. The UK Standardisation of Breast 21,000 women in 16 randomised trials [abstract]. placebo- controlled trial. Lancet 386, 433–443 (2015).
Radiotherapy (START) trials of radiotherapy SABCS GS1-GS01 (2018). 221. Gnant, M. et al. Adjuvant denosumab in
hypofractionation for treatment of early breast cancer: 199. Finn, R. S. et al. Palbociclib and letrozole in advanced postmenopausal patients with hormone receptor-
10-year follow-u p results of two randomised controlled breast cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. 375, 1925–1936 positive breast cancer (ABCSG-18): disease-f ree
trials. Lancet Oncol. 14, 1086–1094 (2013). (2016). survival results from a randomised, double-b lind,
182. Whelan, T. J. et al. Long-t erm results of hypofractionated 200. Hortobagyi, G. N. et al. Ribociclib as first-l ine therapy placebo-c ontrolled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 20,
radiation therapy for breast cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. for HR-p ositive, advanced breast cancer. N. Engl. 339–351 (2019).
362, 513–520 (2010). J. Med. 375, 1738–1748 (2016). 222. Coleman, R. E. et al. Adjuvant denosumab in early
183. Wang, S.-L. et al. Hypofractionated versus conventional 201. Goetz, M. P. et al. MONARCH 3: abemaciclib as initial breast cancer: first results from the international
fractionated postmastectomy radiotherapy for patients therapy for advanced breast cancer. J. Clin. Oncol. 35, multicenter randomized phase III placebo controlled
with high-r isk breast cancer: a randomised, non- 3638–3646 (2017). D-C ARE study [abstract]. J. Clin. Oncol. 36 (Suppl.),
inferiority, open-l abel, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 20, 202. Mackey, J. R. et al. Long-t erm outcomes after adjuvant a501 (2018).
352–360 (2019). treatment of sequential versus combination docetaxel 223. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group
184. Brouwers, P. J. A. M. et al. Predictors for poor with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide in node- (EBCTCG). Adjuvant bisphosphonate treatment in
cosmetic outcome in patients with early stage breast positive breast cancer: BCIRG-005 randomized trial. early breast cancer: meta-a nalyses of individual
cancer treated with breast conserving therapy: results Ann. Oncol. 27, 1041–1047 (2016). patient data from randomised trials. Lancet 386,
of the Young Boost trial. Radiother. Oncol. 128, 203. Del Mastro, L. et al. Fluorouracil and dose-d ense 1353–1361 (2015).
434–441 (2018). chemotherapy in adjuvant treatment of patients with 224. Coleman, R. E. et al. Benefits and risks of adjuvant
185. Polgár, C. et al. Patient selection for accelerated early-s tage breast cancer: an open-l abel, 2×2 factorial, treatment with zoledronic acid in stage II/III breast
partial-b reast irradiation (APBI) after breast- randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet 385, 1863–1872 cancer. 10 years follow-u p of the AZURE randomized
conserving surgery: recommendations of the groupe (2015). clinical trial (BIG 01/04). J. Bone Oncol. 13, 123–135
européen de curiethérapie-e uropean society for 204. Blum, J. L. et al. Anthracyclines in early breast cancer: (2018).
therapeutic radiology and oncology (GEC-E STRO) the ABC Trials-U SOR 06-090, NSABP B-46-I/USOR 225. Cardoso, F. et al. 4th ESO–ESMO international
breast cancer working group based on clinical 07132, and NSABP B-49 (NRG Oncology). J. Clin. consensus guidelines for advanced breast cancer
evidence (2009). Radiother. Oncol. 94, 264–273 Oncol. 35, 2647–2655 (2017). (ABC 4)†. Ann. Oncol. 29, 1634–1657 (2018).
(2010). 205. Gray, R. et al. Increasing the dose intensity of 226. Golse, N. & Adam, R. Liver metastases from breast
186. Correa, C. et al. Accelerated partial breast irradiation: chemotherapy by more frequent administration or cancer: what role for surgery? Indications and results.
executive summary for the update of an ASTRO sequential scheduling: a patient-l evel meta-a nalysis Clin. Breast Cancer 17, 256–265 (2017).
Evidence- Based. Consensus Statement. Pract. Radiat. of 37 298 women with early breast cancer in 26 227. Xie, Y. et al. Surgery of the primary tumor improves
Oncol. 7, 73–79 (2017). randomised trials. Lancet 393, 1440–1452 (2019). survival in women with stage IV breast cancer in
187. Miranda, F. A. et al. Accelerated partial breast 206. Gianni, L. et al. 5-Year analysis of neoadjuvant southwest China: a retrospective analysis. Medicine
irradiation: current status with a focus on clinical pertuzumab and trastuzumab in patients with locally 96, e7048 (2017).
practice. Breast J. https://doi.org/10.1111/tbj.13164 advanced, inflammatory, or early-s tage HER2-positive 228. Shien, T. & Doihara, H. Resection of the primary tumor
(2018). breast cancer (NeoSphere): a multicentre, open-l abel, in stage IV breast cancer. World J. Clin. Oncol. 5,
188. Marta, G. N. et al. Effectiveness of different phase 2 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol. 17, 82–85 (2014).
accelerated partial breast irradiation techniques for 791–800 (2016). 229. Badwe, R. et al. Locoregional treatment versus no
the treatment of breast cancer patients: systematic 207. von Minckwitz, G. et al. Trastuzumab emtansine for treatment of the primary tumour in metastatic breast
review using indirect comparisons of randomized residual invasive HER2-positive breast cancer. N. Engl. cancer: an open-l abel randomised controlled trial.
clinical trials. Rep. Pract. Oncol. Radiother. 24, J. Med. 380, 617–628 (2018). Lancet Oncol. 16, 1380–1388 (2015).
165–174 (2019). 208. von Minckwitz, G. et al. Adjuvant pertuzumab and 230. Soran, A., Ozbas, S., Kelsey, S. F. & Gulluoglu, B. M.
189. Veronesi, U. et al. Intraoperative radiotherapy versus trastuzumab in early HER2-positive breast cancer. Randomized trial comparing locoregional resection of
external radiotherapy for early breast cancer (ELIOT): N. Engl. J. Med. 377, 122–131 (2017). primary tumor with no surgery in stage IV breast cancer
a randomised controlled equivalence trial. Lancet 209. Martin, M. et al. Neratinib after trastuzumab-b ased at the presentation (Protocol MF07-01): a study of
Oncol. 14, 1269–1277 (2013). adjuvant therapy in HER2-positive breast cancer Turkish Federation of the National Societies for Breast
190. Vaidya, J. S. et al. Risk-a dapted targeted (ExteNET): 5-year analysis of a randomised, double- Diseases. Breast J. 15, 399–403 (2009).
intraoperative radiotherapy versus whole-b reast blind, placebo-c ontrolled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 231. Fitzal, F. et al. Impact of breast surgery in primary
radiotherapy for breast cancer: 5-year results for 18, 1688–1700 (2017). metastasized breast cancer: outcomes of the
local control and overall survival from the TARGIT-A 210. Tolaney, S. M. et al. Adjuvant paclitaxel and prospective randomized phase III ABCSG-28
randomised trial. Lancet 383, 603–613 (2014). trastuzumab for node-n egative, HER2-positive breast POSYTIVE Trial. Ann. Surg. https://doi.org/10.1097/
191. Early Breast Cancer Trialists’ Collaborative Group cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. 372, 134–141 (2015). SLA.0000000000002771 (2018).
(EBCTCG). et al. Relevance of breast cancer hormone 211. Tolaney, S. M. et al. Seven-y ear (yr) follow-u p of 232. Barinoff, J. et al. Primary metastatic breast cancer
receptors and other factors to the efficacy of adjuvant adjuvant paclitaxel (T) and trastuzumab (H) (APT trial) in the era of targeted therapy — prognostic impact
tamoxifen: patient-l evel meta-a nalysis of randomised for node-n egative, HER2-positive breast cancer (BC). and the role of breast tumour surgery. Eur. J. Cancer
trials. Lancet 378, 771–784 (2011). J. Clin. Oncol. 35, 511–511 (2017). 83, 116–124 (2017).
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 29
0123456789();
Primer
233. Shien, T. et al. A randomized controlled trial tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) for the 278. Ellis, M. J. et al. Ki67 Proliferation index as a tool for
comparing primary tumor resection plus systemic diagnosis of breast cancer recurrence. Health Technol. chemotherapy decisions during and after neoadjuvant
therapy with systemic therapy alone in metastatic Assess. 14, 1–103 (2010). aromatase inhibitor treatment of breast cancer:
breast cancer (JCOG1017 PRIM-B C). J. Clin. Oncol. 256. Shachar, S. S. Assessing treatment response in results from the American College of Surgeons
35, TPS588–TPS588 (2017). metastatic breast cancer. Am. J. Hematol. Oncol. Oncology Group Z1031 trial (Alliance). J. Clin. Oncol.
234. Cameron, D. Removing the primary tumour in 12, (2016). 35, 1061–1069 (2017).
metastatic breast cancer. Lancet Oncol. 16, 257. Lee, C. I. et al. Comparative effectiveness of imaging 279. Hölzel, D. et al. Improved systemic treatment for early
1284–1285 (2015). modalities to determine metastatic breast cancer breast cancer improves cure rates, modifies metastatic
235. Dare, A. J. et al. Surgical Services for Cancer treatment response. Breast 24, 3–11 (2015). pattern and shortens post-m etastatic survival: 35-year
Care. in Cancer: Disease Control Priorities, Third 258. Pagani, O. et al. Adjuvant exemestane with ovarian results from the munich cancer registry. J. Cancer Res.
Edition (Volume 3) (eds. Gelband, H., Jha, P., suppression in premenopausal breast cancer. N. Engl. Clin. Oncol. 143, 1701–1712 (2017).
Sankaranarayanan, R. & Horton, S.) (The International J. Med. 371, 107–118 (2014). 280. Hölzel, D. et al. Survival of de novo stage IV breast
Bank for Reconstruction and Development/The 259. Francis, P., Regan, M. & Fleming, G. Adjuvant ovarian cancer patients over three decades. J. Cancer Res.
World Bank, 2015). suppression in premenopausal breast cancer. N. Engl. Clin. Oncol. 143, 509–519 (2017).
236. Phillips, C., Jeffree, R. & Khasraw, M. Management J. Med. 372, 1672–1673 (2015). 281. Angus, L. et al. The genomic landscape of 501
of breast cancer brain metastases: a practical review. 260. Mao, J. J. et al. Electroacupuncture versus gabapentin metastatic breast cancer patients [abstract]. SABCS
Breast 31, 90–98 (2017). for hot flashes among breast cancer survivors: GS1-07 (2018).
237. Thavarajah, N. et al. Continued success in providing a randomized placebo-c ontrolled trial. J. Clin. Oncol. 282. Desmedt, C. et al. Unraveling lobular breast cancer
timely palliative radiation therapy at the rapid 33, 3615–3620 (2015). progression and endocrine resistance mechanisms
response radiotherapy program: a review of 261. Elkins, G. et al. Randomized trial of a hypnosis through genomic and immune characterization of
2008–2012. Curr. Oncol. 20, e206–e211 (2013). intervention for treatment of hot flashes among matched primary and metastatic samples [abstract].
238. Chow, E. et al. Single versus multiple fractions of breast cancer survivors. J. Clin. Oncol. 26, SABCS GS1–06 (2018).
repeat radiation for painful bone metastases: 5022–5026 (2008). 283. Baselga, J. et al. Buparlisib plus fulvestrant versus
a randomised, controlled, non-i nferiority trial. 262. Loprinzi, C. L. et al. Venlafaxine in management of hot placebo plus fulvestrant in postmenopausal, hormone
Lancet Oncol. 15, 164–171 (2014). flashes in survivors of breast cancer: a randomised receptor-p ositive, HER2-negative, advanced breast
239. Sologuren, I., Rodríguez-G allego, C. & Lara, P. C. controlled trial. Lancet 356, 2059–2063 (2000). cancer (BELLE-2): a randomised, double-b lind,
Immune effects of high dose radiation treatment: 263. Niravath, P. Aromatase inhibitor-i nduced arthralgia: placebo-c ontrolled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 18,
implications of ionizing radiation on the development a review. Ann. Oncol. 24, 1443–1449 (2013). 904–916 (2017).
of bystander and abscopal effects. Transl Cancer Res. 264. Barton, D. L. et al. Impact of vaginal 284. André, F. et al. Alpelisib for PIK3CA- mutated, hormone
3, 18-31–31 (2014). dehydroepiandosterone (DHEA) on vaginal symptoms receptor-p ositive advanced breast cancer. N. Engl.
240. Morgan, S. C. & Parker, C. C. Local treatment of in female cancer survivors: Trial N10C1 (Alliance). J. Med. 380, 1929–1940 (2019).
metastatic cancer — killing the seed or disturbing J. Clin. Oncol. 32, 9507–9507 (2014). 285. Baselga, J. et al. Phase III study of taselisib (GDC-
the soil? Nat. Rev. Clin. Oncol. 8, 504–506 (2011). 265. Razvi, Y. et al. ASCO, NCCN, MASCC/ESMO: 0032) + fulvestrant (FULV) v FULV in patients (pts)
241. Morgan, S., Caudrelier, J.-M. & Clemons, M. a comparison of antiemetic guidelines for the treatment with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive, PIK3CA-m utant
Radiotherapy to the primary tumor is associated with of chemotherapy-i nduced nausea and vomiting in adult (MUT), locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer
improved survival in stage IV breast cancer [abstract]. patients. Support. Care Cancer 27, 87–95 (2019). (MBC): primary analysis from SANDPIPER. J. Clin.
SABCS P4, 16–06 (2012). 266. Gulati, G. et al. Prevention of Cardiac Dysfunction Oncol. 36, LBA1006–LBA1006 (2018).
242. Bernier, J. Immuno-o ncology: allying forces of radio- During Adjuvant Breast Cancer Therapy (PRADA): 286. Kim, S.-B. et al. Ipatasertib plus paclitaxel versus
and immuno-t herapy to enhance cancer cell killing. a 2×2 factorial, randomized, placebo-c ontrolled, placebo plus paclitaxel as first-l ine therapy for
Crit. Rev. Oncol. Hematol. 108, 97–108 (2016). double-b lind clinical trial of candesartan and metastatic triple-n egative breast cancer (LOTUS):
243. Fietz, T. et al. Palliative systemic therapy and overall metoprolol. Eur. Heart J. 37, 1671–1680 (2016). a multicentre, randomised, double-b lind, placebo-
survival of 1,395 patients with advanced breast 267. Smith, E. M. L. et al. Effect of duloxetine on pain, controlled, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol. 18,
cancer — rResults from the prospective German TMK function, and quality of life among patients with 1360–1372 (2017).
cohort study. Breast. 34, 122–130 (2017). chemotherapy-i nduced painful peripheral neuropathy: 287. Schmid, P. et al. AZD5363 plus paclitaxel versus
244. Rugo, H. S. et al. Endocrine therapy for hormone a randomized clinical trial. JAMA 309, 1359–1367 placebo plus paclitaxel as first-l ine therapy for
receptor-p ositive metastatic breast cancer: American (2013). metastatic triple-n egative breast cancer (PAKT): a
Society of Clinical Oncology guideline. J. Clin. Oncol. 268. Hershman, D. L. et al. Prevention and management randomised, double-b lind, placebo-c ontrolled, phase II
34, 3069–3103 (2016). of chemotherapy-i nduced peripheral neuropathy in trial. J. Clin. Oncol. 36 (15 Suppl.), 1007 (2018).
245. Turner, N. C. et al. Overall survival with palbociclib and survivors of adult cancers: American Society of Clinical 288. Jones, R. H. et al. Capivasertib (AZD5363) plus
fulvestrant in advanced breast cancer. N. Engl. J. Med. Oncology clinical practice guideline. J. Clin. Oncol. 32, fulvestrant versus placebo plus fulvestrant after
379, 1926–1936 (2018). 1941–1967 (2014). relapse or progression on an aromatase inhibitor in
246. Miles, D. W. et al. First-l ine bevacizumab in combination 269. Hanai, A. et al. Effects of cryotherapy on objective and metastatic ER-p ositive breast cancer (FAKTION): a
with chemotherapy for HER2-negative metastatic subjective symptoms of paclitaxel-i nduced neuropathy: randomized, double-b lind, placebo-c ontrolled, phase II
breast cancer: pooled and subgroup analyses of data prospective self-c ontrolled trial. J. Natl Cancer Inst. trial [abstract]. J. Clin. Oncol. 37 (no. 15_suppl),
from 2447 patients. Ann. Oncol. 24, 2773–2780 110, 141–148 (2018). 1005–1005 (2019).
(2013). 270. Kadakia, K. C., Rozell, S. A., Butala, A. A. & 289. Yardley, D. A. et al. Randomized phase II, double-
247. Giordano, S. H. et al. Systemic therapy for patients Loprinzi, C. L. Supportive cryotherapy: a review blind, placebo-c ontrolled study of exemestane with
with advanced human epidermal growth factor from head to toe. J. Pain Symptom Manage. 47, or without entinostat in postmenopausal women with
receptor 2-positive breast cancer: American Society 1100–1115 (2014). locally recurrent or metastatic estrogen receptor-
of Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline. J. Clin. 271. Hou, S., Huh, B., Kim, H. K., Kim, K.-H. & Abdi, S. positive breast cancer progressing on treatment with
Oncol. 32, 2078–2099 (2014). Treatment of chemotherapy-i nduced peripheral a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor. J. Clin. Oncol. 31,
248. Partridge, A. H. et al. Chemotherapy and targeted neuropathy: systematic review and recommendations. 2128–2135 (2013).
therapy for women with human epidermal growth Pain Physician 21, 571–592 (2018). 290. Ogitani, Y. et al. DS-8201a, a novel HER2-targeting
factor receptor 2-negative (or unknown) advanced 272. Ahmed, R. L., Schmitz, K. H., Prizment, A. E. & ADC with a novel DNA Topoisomerase I inhibitor,
breast cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology Folsom, A. R. Risk factors for lymphedema in breast demonstrates a promising antitumor efficacy with
clinical practice guideline. J. Clin. Oncol. 32, cancer survivors, the Iowa Women’s Health Study. differentiation from T-D M1. Clin. Cancer Res. 22,
3307–3329 (2014). Breast Cancer Res. Treat. 130, 981–991 (2011). 5097–5108 (2016).
249. Schmid, P. et al. Atezolizumab and nab-p aclitaxel in 273. Gillespie, T. C., Sayegh, H. E., Brunelle, C. L., 291. Tamura, K. et al. Trastuzumab deruxtecan (DS-8201a)
advanced triple-n egative breast cancer. N. Engl. Daniell, K. M. & Taghian, A. G. Breast cancer-r elated in patients with advanced HER2-positive breast cancer
J. Med. 379, 2108–2121 (2018). lymphedema: risk factors, precautionary measures, previously treated with trastuzumab emtansine:
250. Marinovich, M. L. et al. Early prediction of pathologic and treatments. Gland. Surg. 7, 379–403 (2018). a dose-e xpansion, phase 1 study. Lancet Oncol. 20,
response to neoadjuvant therapy in breast cancer: 274. Runowicz, C. D. et al. American Cancer Society/ 816–826 (2019).
systematic review of the accuracy of MRI. Breast 21, American Society of Clinical Oncology breast cancer 292. Burris III, H. A., Giaccone, G. & Im, S. A. Updated
669–677 (2012). survivorship care guideline. J. Clin. Oncol. 34, findings of a first-i n-human phase 1 study of
251. Avril, S. et al. 18F-F DG PET/CT for monitoring of 611–635 (2016). margetuximab, an Fc-o ptimized chimeric monoclonal
treatment response in breast cancer. J. Nucl. Med. 275. Velikova, G. et al. Quality of life after postmastectomy antibody, in patients with HER2-positive advanced
57, 34S–39SS (2016). radiotherapy in patients with intermediate-r isk breast solid tumors [abstract]. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. Meet.
252. Marinovich, M. L. et al. Meta-a nalysis of magnetic cancer (SUPREMO): 2-year follow-u p results of a 33 (no. 15_suppl), A523 (2015).
resonance imaging in detecting residual breast cancer randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol. 19, 293. Rugo, H. S. et al. SOPHIA primary analysis: a phase 3
after neoadjuvant therapy. J. Natl Cancer Inst. 105, 1516–1529 (2018). (P3) study of margetuximab (M) + chemotherapy (C)
321–333 (2013). 276. Hofmann, D. et al. WSG ADAPT — adjuvant dynamic versus trastuzumab (T) + C in patients (pts) with
253. Marinovich, M. L. et al. Agreement between MRI marker-a djusted personalized therapy trial optimizing HER2+ metastatic (met) breast cancer (MBC) after
and pathologic breast tumor size after neoadjuvant risk assessment and therapy response prediction in prior anti-H ER2 therapies (Tx) [abstract]. J. Clin.
chemotherapy, and comparison with alternative tests: early breast cancer: study protocol for a prospective, Oncol. 37 (Suppl.), Abstr 1000 (2019).
individual patient data meta-a nalysis. BMC Cancer 15, multi-c enter, controlled, non-b linded, randomized, 294. Hyman, D. M., Piha-P aul, S. & Rodon, J. Neratinib
662 (2015). investigator initiated phase II/III trial. Trials 14, 261 in HER2- or HER3-mutant solid tumors: SUMMIT, a
254. Humbert, O. et al. Role of positron emission (2013). global, multi-h istology, open-l abel, phase 2 ‘basket’
tomography for the monitoring of response to 277. Robertson, J. F. R., Dowsett, M. & Bliss, J. M. study [abstract]. Am. Assoc. Cancer Res. Meet. CT001
therapy in breast cancer. Oncologist 20, 94–104 Peri-o perative aromatase inhibitor treatment in (2017).
(2015). determining or predicting long-t erm outcome in early 295. Saura, C. et al. Neratinib + capecitabine versus lapatinib
255. Pennant, M. et al. A systematic review of positron breast cancer — the POETIC Trial (CRUK/07/015) + capecitabine in patients with HER2+ metastatic
emission tomography (PET) and positron emission [abstract]. SABCS GS1-03 (2017). breast cancer previously treated with ≥2 HER2-directed
30 | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 www.nature.com/nrdp
0123456789();
Primer
regimens: findings from the multinational, randomized, 318. European Commission Initiative on Breast Cancer. measurement information system (PROMIS) global
phase III NALA trial [abstract]. J. Clin. Oncol. Recommendations from European Breast Guidelines items. Qual. Life Res. 18, 873–880 (2009).
37 (Suppl.), Abstract 1002 (2019). Europa.eu https://ecibc.jrc.ec.europa.eu/ 340. Bevans, M., Ross, A. & Cella, D. Patient-r eported
296. Gucalp, A. et al. Phase II trial of bicalutamide in recommendations/list/Professional (2019). outcomes measurement information system
patients with androgen receptor-p ositive, estrogen 319. Dawood, S. et al. International expert panel on (PROMIS): efficient, standardized tools to measure
receptor-n egative metastatic breast cancer. inflammatory breast cancer: consensus statement for self-r eported health and quality of life. Nurs. Outlook
Clin. Cancer Res. 19, 5505–5512 (2013). standardized diagnosis and treatment. Ann. Oncol. 62, 339–345 (2014).
297. Cortes, J., Crown, J. & Awada, A. Overall survival (OS) 22, 515–523 (2011).
from the phase 2 study of enzalutamide (ENZA), an 320. Cserni, G., Charafe-J auffret, E. & van Diest, P. J. Acknowledgements
androgen receptor (AR) signaling inhibitor, in AR+ Inflammatory breast cancer: the pathologists’ The authors thank N. Radosevic- Robin (Jean Perrin
advanced triple-n egative breast cancer (aTNBC) perspective. Eur. J. Surg. Oncol. 44, 1128–1134 Comprehensive Cancer Centre, France) for her assistance in
[abstract]. Eur. Cancer Congr. 51 (Suppl. 3), 1802 (2018). preparing Fig. 1. N. Houssami receives research support
(2015). 321. Cheang, M. C. U. et al. Defining breast cancer intrinsic through a National Breast Cancer Foundation (NBCF,
298. Gelmon, K. A. et al. Olaparib in patients with recurrent subtypes by quantitative receptor expression. Australia) Breast Cancer Research Leadership Fellowship.
high-g rade serous or poorly differentiated ovarian Oncologist 20, 474–482 (2015). K.R. acknowledges research funding from the Clinical and
carcinoma or triple-n egative breast cancer: a phase 2, 322. Cancer Genome Atlas Network. Comprehensive Translational Sciences Award (CTSA) grant number KL2
multicentre, open-l abel, non-r andomised study. molecular portraits of human breast tumours. Nature TR002379 from the National Centre for Advancing
Lancet Oncol. 12, 852–861 (2011). 490, 61–70 (2012). Translational Sciences, a component of the US National
299. Nanda, R. et al. Pembrolizumab in patients with This research establishes the contemporary Institutes of Health.
advanced triple-n egative breast cancer: phase Ib method of classifying breast cancer into clinically
KEYNOTE-012 Study. J. Clin. Oncol. 34, 2460–2467 relevant molecular subtypes. Author contributions
(2016). 323. Hoadley, K. A., Andre, F., Ellis, M. J. & Perou, C. M. Introduction (all authors); Epidemiology (J.T.); Mechanisms/
300. Schmid, P., Cruz, C. & Braiteh, F. S. Atezolizumab in Breast cancer intrinsic subtypes (Poster). Nat. Rev. pathophysiology (F.P.-L.); Diagnosis, screening and prevention
metastatic triple-n egative breast cancer: long-t erm Clin. Oncol. https://www.nature.com/documents/ (N. Houssami); Management (N. Harbeck, F.C., M.G., P.P.,
clinical outcomes and biomarker analyses [abstract]. nrclinonc_posters_breastcancer.pdf (2014). J.C. and N. Houssami); Quality of life (K.R.); Outlook (all
Am. Assoc. Cancer Res. 77, A2986 (2017). 324. Desmedt, C. et al. Genomic characterization of authors); Overview of the Primer (N. Harbeck and F.C.).
301. André, F. et al. Alpelisib (ALP) + fulvestrant (FUL) for primary invasive lobular breast cancer. J. Clin. Oncol.
advanced breast cancer (ABC): results of the phase 3 34, 1872–1881 (2016). Competing interests
SOLAR-1 trial [abstract]. ESMO LBA3 PR (2018). 325. Ciriello, G. et al. Comprehensive molecular portraits N. Harbeck reports honoraria for lectures and/or consulting
302. Hyman, D. M. et al. HER kinase inhibition in patients of invasive lobular breast cancer. Cell 163, 506–519 from Agendia, Amgen, Astra Zeneca, Celgene, Daiichi-
with HER2- and HER3-mutant cancers. Nature 554, (2015). Sankyo, Genomic Health, Lilly, MSD, Novartis, Odonate,
189–194 (2018). 326. Vasudev, P. & Onuma, K. Secretory breast carcinoma: Pfizer, Roche, Sandoz/Hexal and Seattle Genetics. F.P.-L.
303. Hartley, R. L., Stone, J. P. & Temple-O berle, C. Breast unique, triple-n egative carcinoma with a favorable declares personal financial interests in Abbvie, Agendia,
cancer in transgender patients: a systematic review. prognosis and characteristic molecular expression. Astrazeneca, BMS, Genomic Health, Janssen, Lilly, Merck
Part 1: male to female. Eur. J. Surg. Oncol. 44, Arch. Pathol. Lab. Med. 135, 1606–1610 (2011). Lifa, MSD, Myriad, Nanostring, Novartis, Pfizer and Roche;
1455–1462 (2018). 327. Martelotto, L. G. et al. Genomic landscape of adenoid institutional financial interests in Astrazeneca, BMS, Genomic
304. Cardoso, F. et al. Characterization of male breast cystic carcinoma of the breast. J. Pathol. 237, Health, MSD, Myriad, Nanostring and Roche; and congress
cancer: results of the EORTC 10085/TBCRC/BIG/ 179–189 (2015). invitations from Abbvie, Astrazeneca, BMS, MSD and Roche.
NABCG International Male Breast Cancer Program. 328. Goss, P. E. et al. Extending aromatase-i nhibitor J.C. has received honoraria from Celgene, Chugai, Eisai,
Ann. Oncol. 29, 405–417 (2017). adjuvant therapy to 10 years. N. Engl. J. Med. 375, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche and Samsung; has served as a consult-
305. Di Oto, E. et al. X chromosome gain is related to 209–219 (2016). ant for Astrazeneca, Biothera, Celgene, Daichii Sankyo,
increased androgen receptor expression in male 329. Liang, M. et al. Association between CHEK2*1100delC Erytech Pharma, Merus, Polyphor, Roche and Seattle
breast cancer. Virchows Arch. 473, 155–163 (2018). and breast cancer: a systematic review and meta- Genetics; has received research funding from Ariad,
306. Severson, T. M. & Zwart, W. A review of estrogen analysis. Mol. Diagn. Ther. 22, 397–407 (2018). Astrazeneca, Baxalta GMBH, Bayer, Eisai, Guardant Health,
receptor/androgen receptor genomics in male 330. Wang, X. et al. Breast cancer risk and germline Merch Sharp & Dohme, Pfizer, Puma and Roche; and has
breast cancer. Endocr. Relat. Cancer 24, R27–R34 genomic profiling of women with neurofibromatosis stocks in MedSIR. M.G. reports honoraria from Amgen,
(2017). type 1 who developed breast cancer. Genes. AstraZeneca, Celgene, Eli Lilly, Medison, Nanostring
307. Deb, S. et al. PIK3CA mutations are frequently Chromosomes Cancer 57, 19–27 (2018). Technologies, Novartis and Roche; advisory fees from
observed in BRCAX but not BRCA2-associated male 331. McCart Reed, A. E. et al. Phenotypic and molecular Accelsoir; research funding from AstraZeneca, Novartis, Pfizer
breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res. 15, R69 (2013). dissection of metaplastic breast cancer and the and Roche; and travel expenses from Amgen, AstraZeneca,
308. Gucalp, A. et al. Male breast cancer: a disease distinct prognostic implications: prognostic features of Celgene, Eli Lilly, Ipsen, Medison, Novartis and Pfizer. K.R.
from female breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res. Treat. metaplastic breast cancer. J. Pathol. 247, 214–227 declares previous ownership of Merck and Pfizer stock
173, 37–48 (2019). (2019). (October 2016–February 2018). J.T. reports honoraria and
309. Korde, L. A. et al. Multidisciplinary meeting 332. Wendt, C. & Margolin, S. Identifying breast cancer consultancy or advisory roles for AstraZeneca, Astellas,
on male breast cancer: summary and research susceptibility genes — a review of the genetic De Novo, Eisai, Foundation Medicine, Nanostring, Novartis,
recommendations. J. Clin. Oncol. 28, 2114–2122 background in familial breast cancer. Acta Oncol. 58, Pfizer and Roche. F.C. declares consultancy roles for Amgen,
(2010). 135–146 (2019). Astellas/Medivation, AstraZeneca, Celgene, Daiichi-S ankyo,
310. Cardoso, F. et al. Early breast cancer: ESMO clinical 333. Couch, F. J. et al. Associations between cancer Eisai, Genentech, GE Oncology, GlaxoSmithKline,
practice guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow- predisposition testing panel genes and breast cancer. Macrogenics, Medscape, Merck- Sharp, Merus BV, Mylan,
up. Ann. Oncol. 30, 1194–1220 (2019). JAMA Oncol. 3, 1190 (2017). Mundipharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Pierre- Fabre, prIME
311. Bareche, Y. et al. Unravelling triple-n egative breast 334. Nguyen, J. et al. EORTC QLQ-B R23 and FACT-B for the Oncology, Roche, Sanofi, Seattle Genetics and Teva. The
cancer molecular heterogeneity using an integrative assessment of quality of life in patients with breast remaining authors declare no competing interests.
multiomic analysis. Ann. Oncol. 29, 895–902 (2018). cancer: a literature review. J. Comp. Eff. Res. 4,
312. Lehmann, B. D. & Pietenpol, J. A. Clinical implications 157–166 (2015). Peer review information
of molecular heterogeneity in triple negative breast 335. McLachlan, S. A., Devins, G. M. & Goodwin, P. J. Nature Reviews Disease Primers thanks T. Howell, P. Neven,
cancer. Breast 24, S36–S40 (2015). Factor analysis of the psychosocial items of the EORTC M. Toi and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their
313. Lehmann, B. D. et al. Refinement of triple-n egative QLQ-C 30 in metastatic breast cancer patients contribution to the peer review of this work.
breast cancer molecular subtypes: implications for participating in a psychosocial intervention study.
neoadjuvant chemotherapy selection. PLOS ONE 11, Qual. Life Res. 8, 311–317 (1999). Publisher’s note
e0157368 (2016). 336. Bjelic-R adisic, V. et al. An international update Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional
314. Burstein, M. D. et al. Comprehensive genomic analysis of the EORTC questionnaire for assessing quality of life claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
identifies novel subtypes and targets of triple-n egative in breast cancer patients (EORTC QLQ-B C23) —
breast cancer. Clin. Cancer Res. 21, 1688–1698 EORTC QLQ- BR45. Ann. Oncol. 29, viii58–viii86 RElatED links
(2015). (2018). ABC Global Alliance: https://www.abcglobalalliance.org
315. Siu, A. L. & on behalf of the U.S. Preventive Services 337. Ganz, P. A., Kwan, L., Stanton, A. L., Bower, J. E. Adjuvant! Online: www.adjuvantonline.com
Task Force. Screening for breast cancer: U.S. & Belin, T. R. Physical and psychosocial recovery in european Organization for research and Treatment of
Preventive Services Task Force recommendation the year after primary treatment of breast cancer. Cancer: https://qol.eortc.org/modules/
statement. Ann. Intern. Med. 164, 279 (2016). J. Clin. Oncol. 29, 1101–1109 (2011). euroQol 5-Dimensions: https://euroqol.org/
316. Klarenbach, S. et al. Recommendations on screening 338. Revicki, D. A. et al. Predicting EuroQol (EQ-5D) scores Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy: http://www.facit.
for breast cancer in women aged 40–74 years who from the patient-r eported outcomes measurement org/FACITOrg
are not at increased risk for breast cancer. Can. Med. information system (PROMIS) global items and Patient-r eported Outcomes measurement information
Assoc. J. 190, E1441–E1451 (2018). domain item banks in a United States sample. System: http://www.healthmeasures.net/explore-
317. Oeffinger, K. C. et al. Breast cancer screening for Qual. Life Res. 18, 783–791 (2009). measurement-systems/promis
women at average risk: 2015 guideline update from 339. Hays, R. D., Bjorner, J. B., Revicki, D. A., Spritzer, K. L. Short Form Health Survey-36: http://www.rand.org/health/
the American Cancer Society. JAMA 314, 1599 & Cella, D. Development of physical and mental health surveys_tools/mos/36-item- short-form.html
(2015). summary scores from the patient-r eported outcomes
NATURE REVIEWS | DISEASE PRIMERS | Article citation ID: (2019) 5:66 31
0123456789();
View publication stats